0|chunk|pathogens Influenza-Omics and the Host Response: Recent Advances and Future Prospects

1|chunk|Influenza A viruses (IAV) continually evolve and have the capacity to cause global pandemics. Because IAV represents an ongoing threat, identifying novel therapies and host innate immune factors that contribute to IAV pathogenesis is of considerable interest. This review summarizes the relevant literature as it relates to global host responses to influenza infection at both the proteome and transcriptome level. The various-omics infection systems that include but are not limited to ferrets, mice, pigs, and even the controlled infection of humans are reviewed. Discussion focuses on recent advances, remaining challenges, and knowledge gaps as it relates to influenza-omics infection outcomes. . As IAV strains evolve and sequence information from the IAV cannot currently determine pathogenicity, -omics platforms can be a powerful tool to compare emergent IAV strain data with previously circulating strains for the purpose of threat characterization.
1	0	9 Influenza	Disease	DOID_8469
1	349	358 influenza	Disease	DOID_8469

2|chunk|In the last ten years, mass spectrometry instrumentation and methodology advancements have led to considerable knowledge of the host proteomic response to viral infection (for a recent review, see [1] ). The increasing popularity of NGS technologies such as RNA-seq, in combination with further advances in microarray profiling technology has also increased our transcriptomic-RNA understanding of virus-host interactions. As -omics capabilities become cheaper and the software to interpret data becomes more user-friendly, the number of laboratories that can perform these data-intensive studies will likely increase. The purpose of this review is to assess both proteomic and transcriptomic findings in the context of IAV infection. In the following sections, recent advances and future prospects are discussed. Figure 1 summarizes notable published -omics experiments, many of which are discussed in the proceeding sections.
2	155	170 viral infection	Disease	DOID_934

