0|chunk|Gut Virome Analysis of Cameroonians Reveals High Diversity of Enteric Viruses, Including Potential Interspecies Transmitted Viruses

1|chunk|Diarrhea remains one of the most common causes of deaths in children. A limited number of studies have investigated the prevalence of enteric pathogens in Cameroon, and as in many other African countries, the cause of many diarrheal episodes remains unexplained. A proportion of these unknown cases of diarrhea are likely caused by yet-unidentified viral agents, some of which could be the result of (recent) interspecies transmission from animal reservoirs, like bats. Using viral metagenomics, we screened fecal samples of 221 humans (almost all with gastroenteritis symptoms) between 0 and 89 years of age with different degrees of bat contact. We identified viruses belonging to families that are known to cause gastroenteritis such as Adenoviridae, Astroviridae, Caliciviridae, Picornaviridae, and Reoviridae. Interestingly, a mammalian orthoreovirus, picobirnaviruses, a smacovirus, and a pecovirus were also found. Although there was no evidence of interspecies transmission of the most common human gastroenteritis-related viruses (Astroviridae, Caliciviridae, and Reoviridae), the phylogenies of the identified orthoreovirus, picobirnavirus, and smacovirus indicate a genetic relatedness of these viruses identified in stools of humans and those of bats and/or other animals. These findings points out the possibility of interspecies transmission or simply a shared host of these viruses (bacterial, fungal, parasitic, . . .) present in both animals (bats) and humans. Further screening of bat viruses in humans or vice versa will elucidate the epidemiological potential threats of animal viruses to human health. Furthermore, this study showed a huge diversity of highly divergent novel phages, thereby expanding the existing phageome considerably.
1	0	8 Diarrhea	Disease	DOID_13250
1	302	310 diarrhea	Disease	DOID_13250
1	553	568 gastroenteritis	Disease	DOID_2326
1	716	731 gastroenteritis	Disease	DOID_2326

