0|chunk|Longitudinal survey of two serotine bat (Eptesicus serotinus) maternity colonies exposed to EBLV-1 (European Bat Lyssavirus type 1): Assessment of survival and serological status variations using capture-recapture models

1|chunk|This study describes two longitudinal serological surveys of European Bat Lyssavirus type 1 (EBLV-1) antibodies in serotine bat (Eptesicus serotinus) maternity colonies located in the North-East of France. This species is currently considered as the main EBLV-1 reservoir. Multievent capture-recapture models were used to determine the factors influencing bat rabies transmission as this method accounts for imperfect detection and uncertainty in disease states. Considering the period of study, analyses revealed that survival and recapture probabilities were not affected by the serological status of individuals, confirming the capacity of bats to be exposed to lyssaviruses without dying. Five bats have been found with EBLV-1 RNA in the saliva at the start of the study, suggesting they were caught during virus excretion period. Among these bats, one was interestingly recaptured one year later and harbored a seropositive status. Along the survey, some others bats have been observed to both seroconvert (i.e. move from a negative to a positive serological status) and serorevert (i.e. move from a positive to a negative serological status). Peak of seroprevalence reached 34% and 70% in site A and B respectively. On one of the 2 sites, global decrease of seroprevalence was observed all along the study period nuanced by oscillation intervals of approximately 2-3 years supporting the oscillation infection dynamics hypothesized during a previous EBLV-1 study in a Myotis myotis colony. Seroprevalence were affected by significantly higher seroprevalence in summer than in spring. The maximum time observed between successive positive serological statuses of a bat demonstrated the potential PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.Citation: Robardet E, Borel C, Moinet M, Jouan D, Wasniewski M, Barrat J, et al. (2017) Longitudinal survey of two serotine bat (Eptesicus serotinus) maternity colonies exposed to EBLV-1 (European Bat Lyssavirus type 1): Assessment of survival and serological status variations using capturerecapture models. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 11(11): e0006048. https://doi.org/10.
1	360	366 rabies	Disease	DOID_11260
1	447	454 disease	Disease	DOID_4
1	731	734 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697
1	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_11260	CHEBI_33697
1	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_4	CHEBI_33697

2|chunk|persistence of neutralizing antibodies for at least 4 years. At last, EBLV-1 serological status transitions have been shown driven by age category with higher seroreversion frequencies in adults than in juvenile. Juveniles and female adults seemed indeed acting as distinct drivers of the rabies virus dynamics, hypothesis have been addressed but their exact role in the EBLV-1 transmission still need to be specified.
2	289	295 rabies	Disease	DOID_11260
2	359	363 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906
2	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_11260	CHEBI_50906

3|chunk|A multi-annual survey of two serotine bat (Eptesicus serotinus) maternity colonies previously found exposed to European Bat Lyssavirus type 1 (EBLV-1) was assessed using capture-recapture methodology. The two roosting site were located in the North-East of France. Animals were trapped, banded, and blood samples were collected to study their status regarding EBLV-1 exposure. Using capture-recapture models, the authors found that seropositive status of bats did not affect the survival abilities of individuals. Seroprevalence of EBLV-1 antibodies within the study showed an oscillation interval of approximately 2-3 years and a higher evidence of contact with the virus in summer than in spring. The maximum duration observed between successive positive serological statuses in the bat population also demonstrated a survival for at least 4 years after the exposition. This study confirms the ability of bats to survive despite circulation of lyssaviruses within the colony. Bats could indeed provide a valuable key to improving human health, currently facing numerous zoonotic epidemic issues.

4|chunk|Serological longitudinal survey of two serotine bat colonies exposed to EBLV-1 PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.

