0|chunk|Rapid detection of Acinetobacter baumannii and molecular epidemiology of carbapenem- resistant A. baumannii in two comprehensive hospitals of Beijing, China

1|chunk|Acinetobacter baumannii is an important opportunistic pathogen associated with a variety of nosocomial infections. A rapid and sensitive molecular detection in clinical isolates is quite needed for the appropriate therapy and outbreak control of A. baumannii. Group 2 carbapenems have been considered the agents of choice for the treatment of multiple drug-resistant A. baumannii. But the prevalence of carbapenem-resistant A. baumannii (CRAB) has been steadily increasing in recent years. Here, we developed a loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay for the rapid detection of A. baumannii in clinical samples by using high-specificity primers of the bla OXA51 gene. Then we investigated the OXA-carbapenemases molecular epidemiology of A. baumannii isolates in two comprehensive hospitals in Beijing. The results showed that the LAMP assay could detect target DNA within 60 min at 65  C. The detection limit was 50 pg/l, which was about 10-fold greater than that of PCR. Furthermore, this method could distinguish A. baumannii from the homologous A. nosocomialis and A. pittii. A total of 228 positive isolates were identified by this LAMPbased method for A. baumannii from 335 intensive care unit patients with clinically suspected multi-resistant infections in two hospitals in Beijing. The rates of CRAB are on the rise and are slowly becoming a routine phenotype for A. baumannii. Among the CRABs, 92.3% harbored both the bla OXA23 and bla OXA51 genes. Thirty-three pulsotypes were identified by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and the majority belonged to clone C. In conclusion, the LAMP method developed for detecting A. baumannii was faster and simpler than conventional PCR and has great potential for both point-ofcare testing and basic research. We further demonstrated a high distribution of class D carbapenemase-encoding genes, mainly OXA-23, which presents an emerging threat in hospitals in China.
1	268	279 carbapenems	Chemical	CHEBI_46633
1	875	878 DNA	Chemical	CHEBI_16991

