0|chunk|

1|chunk|Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author): I like the model in this manuscript. It is very much in the Oxford school -building on previous work of the last author and others, but is timely, intricate, is described clearly and appears from the description to be well implemented. The improvements in performance over alternative approaches for simulated data appear impressive, even allowing for some natural bias towards simulation scenarios that are likely to favour the author's approach. As someone who does not know the HIV literature, and therefore may not appreciate the extent of the advance made, I was less sure what to make of the analysis of real data. My prior is that selection for drug resistance is likely to be a relatively easy problem -and it is not clear to me as an outsider how independent the previously defined drug resistance mutations are to the data analysed in the paper. The concordance is fairly high but a randomization test is not a very stringent criterion, especially since mutations that are implicated in drug resistance presumably are not random subset of all mutations (e.g. excluding those that are observed very rarely). Evolution in response to HLA alleles is a harder problem and the results seem to be very noisy, contrasting greatly for example with the simulations in Figure 2 which implies that many biological parameters can be estimated with high precision. Figure 5 is complicated and hard to understand and mainly seems to indicate how difficult the problem is and how unreliable most or possibly all approaches probably are. Why do figures 2 and 5 give such different impressions, I wonder!? Maybe the estimate the authors make are the only good ones, in which case it is a tremendous advance but I'd like to have some strong arguments to make me believe this. Even if the results are correct, if it is not possible to validate them, what use are they? Although I only have a limited number of concrete suggestions and do not think the general criticism above is necessarily fair, I would encourage the authors to think more creatively about what further information can be harvested from the model -perhaps biological parameters that are entirely inaccessible using other approaches and what additional analyses can be done to confirm that the inferences are biologically meaningful. In any case, tightening up the logic of the real data analysis should be helpful to readers like me. A first major aspect that would profit from additional attention is estimation of how related the samples in the database DB are to those in the phenotyped set D. My intuition is that the degree of relatedness is critical to the power of the method and indeed information from strains in D that are closely related to those in DB is much larger than from those with even slightly more distance relations. Specifically, the signal of adaptation that is being searched for is the changes in the most recent infection and therefore the specificity of the signal decreases with each extra transmission between D and DB. This is relevant especially because the degree of genetic relatedness can be estimated from the HMM. It seems to me that the information from strains at different distances to DB could be weighted differently in inference. This factor can also affect the power of inferences and explain why some phenotypes are easier to study than others etc; different phenotype sets can very easily differ systematically in their relatedness to the same database. All of this can be investigated empirically and might possibly explain some of the difference between the real and simulated data? It would also be useful to know for experimental design purposes which strains contributed substantially to the selection signatures. It might even be useful in validation.
1	689	693 drug	Chemical	CHEBI_23888
1	828	832 drug	Chemical	CHEBI_23888
1	1034	1038 drug	Chemical	CHEBI_23888

