0|chunk|Environmental Research and Public Health How Do the First Days Count? A Case Study of Qatar Experience in Emergency Risk Communication during the MERS-CoV Outbreak

1|chunk|qa (M.A.); eabdfarag@moph.gov.qa (E.A.B.A.F.); halromaihi@moph.gov.qa (H.E.A.-R.); malthani@moph.gov.qa (M.A.-T.); dralmarri@moph.gov.qa (S.A.-M.)

2|chunk|Abstract: This case study is the first to be developed in the Middle East region to document what happened during the response to the 2013 MERS outbreak in Qatar. It provides a description of key epidemiologic events and news released from a prime daily newspaper and main Emergency Risk Communication (ERC) actions that were undertaken by public health authorities. Using the Crisis and Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) theoretical framework, the study analyzes how the performed ERC strategies during the first days of the outbreak might have contributed to the outbreak management. Methods: MERS-CoV related events were chronologically tracked, together with the relevant stories that were published in a major newspaper over the course of three distinct phases of the epidemic. The collected media stories were then assessed against the practiced emergency risk communication (ERC) activities during the same time frame. Results: The Crisis & Emergency Risk Communication (CERC) framework was partially followed during the early days of the MERS-CoV epidemic, which were characterized by overwhelming uncertainty. The SCH's commitment to a proactive and open risk communication strategy since day one, contributed to creating the SCH's image as a credible source of information and allowed for the quick initiation of the overall response efforts. Yet, conflicting messages and over reassurance were among the observed pitfalls of the implemented ERC strategy. Conclusion: The adoption of CERC principles can help restore and maintain the credibility of responding agencies. Further work is needed to develop more rigorous and comprehensive research strategies that address sharing of information by mainstream as well as social media for a more accurate assessment of the impact of the ERC strategy.

3|chunk|Current scientific evidence suggests that dromedary camels are a major reservoir host for MERS-CoV and an animal source of transmission to humans [4] . Camel husbandry is a deeply rooted aspect of Qatari culture. Camels are deemed precious animals, a source of business and a symbol of socioeconomic status.

4|chunk|During emergency situations, the timely announcement, by public health authorities, of the first case of an infectious disease outbreak is important to establish and maintain public trust throughout the emergency [5] [6] [7] . Without securing such trust, authorities jeopardize epidemic control efforts and hence contribute to negative health, political, social, and economic consequences [8] .
4	108	126 infectious disease	Disease	DOID_0050117
4	119	126 disease	Disease	DOID_4

5|chunk|Nonetheless, authorities tend to be hesitant to declare an outbreak a public health emergency when there is insufficient information about its evolution and the effectiveness of recommended measures [5] . They are even more hesitant when an unfolding outbreak involves children, pets, or threatens livelihoods, and somehow impacts the social norms and political environment of a country or when there is a risk to expose organizational weaknesses in the handling of the situation [5]. The MERS-CoV epidemic was no exception to this rule.

6|chunk|This case study is the first to be developed in the Middle East region to provide a description of key epidemic developments along with key decisions in the implementation of the emergency risk communication (ERC) strategy and release of information by local print media.

7|chunk|We attempt to describe how the performed ERC strategy, during the first days of the outbreak, might have contributed to the authorities' credibility, public trust, and outbreak control measures. We believe this case study might be useful to emergency planners for developing scenarios regarding what communication challenges to expect during the first days of a novel virus outbreak. It also represents an example of how practitioners, which are involved in the response to an outbreak, can engage in ERC evaluation efforts. Such efforts can be focused on ERC processes as in this case, or on ERC outcomes, and are both very much needed in public health emergency preparedness, as recently pointed by several literature reviews [9-11].

8|chunk|Theoretical Framework

