0|chunk|BMC Structural Biology Orientation determination by wavelets matching for 3D reconstruction of very noisy electron microscopic virus images
0	0	3 BMC	Chemical	CHEBI_3392
0	106	114 electron	Chemical	CHEBI_10545

1|chunk|In order to perform a 3D reconstruction of electron microscopic images of viruses, it is necessary to determine the orientation (Euler angels) of the 2D projections of the virus. The projections containing high resolution information are usually very noisy. This paper proposes a new method, based on weighted-projection matching in wavelet space for virus orientation determination. In order to speed the retrieval of the best match between projections from a model and real virus particle, a hierarchical correlation matching method is also proposed.
1	43	51 electron	Chemical	CHEBI_10545

2|chunk|A data set of 600 HSV-1 capsid particle images in different orientations was used to test the proposed method. An initial model of about 40  resolutions was used to generate projections of an HSV-1 capsid. Results show that a significant improvement, in terms of accuracy and speed, is obtained for the initial orientation estimates of noisy herpes virus images. For the bacteriophage (P22), the proposed method gave the correct reconstruction compared to the model, while the classical method failed to resolve the correct orientations of the smooth spherical P22 viruses.

3|chunk|Conclusion: This paper introduces a new method for orientation determination of low contrast images and highly noisy virus particles. This method is based on weighted projection matching in wavelet space, which increases the accuracy of the orientations. A hierarchical implementation of this method increases the speed of orientation determination. The estimated number of particles needed for a higher resolution reconstruction increased exponentially. For a 6  resolution reconstruction of the HSV virus, 50,000 particles are necessary. The results show that the proposed method reduces the amount of data needed in a reconstruction by at least 50 %. This may result in savings 2 to 3 man-years invested in acquiring images from the microscope and data processing. Furthermore, the proposed method is able to determine orientations for some difficult particles like P22 with accuracy and consistency. Recently a low PH sindbis capsid was determined with the proposed method, where other methods based on the common line fail.

