0|chunk|Characterizing the Transmission Potential of Zoonotic Infections from Minor Outbreaks

1|chunk|The transmission potential of a novel infection depends on both the inherent transmissibility of a pathogen, and the level of susceptibility in the host population. However, distinguishing between these pathogen-and population-specific properties typically requires detailed serological studies, which are rarely available in the early stages of an outbreak. Using a simple transmission model that incorporates age-stratified social mixing patterns, we present a novel method for characterizing the transmission potential of subcritical infections, which have effective reproduction number R<1, from readily available data on the size of outbreaks. We show that the model can identify the extent to which outbreaks are driven by inherent pathogen transmissibility and pre-existing population immunity, and can generate unbiased estimates of the effective reproduction number. Applying the method to real-life infections, we obtained accurate estimates for the degree of age-specific immunity against monkeypox, influenza A(H5N1) and A(H7N9), and refined existing estimates of the reproduction number. Our results also suggest minimal pre-existing immunity to MERS-CoV in humans. The approach we describe can therefore provide crucial information about novel infections before serological surveys and other detailed analyses are available. The methods would also be applicable to data stratified by factors such as profession or location, which would make it possible to measure the transmission potential of emerging infections in a wide range of settings.
1	1011	1020 influenza	Disease	DOID_8469

2|chunk|The transmission potential of a new infection depends on both the transmissibility of the pathogen and the level of immunity in the host population. However, it can be difficult to measure these properties if there are limited experimental studies of population immunity. By incorporating social contact patterns into a mathematical model of disease transmission, we show that it is possible to estimate both pathogen transmissibility and pre-existing immunity from available data on the size of outbreaks. When an infection does not transmit efficiently between humans, estimates often have to be made using case data from a limited number of small outbreaks. We find that, even with limited data, our technique PLOS Computational Biology | Fig 2. Threshold for anomalously large outbreak sizes. (A) Primary case is in the under 20 age group. Points show joint outbreak sizes that have less than 10 3 probability of occurring. Green points, R 0 = 0.3; orange, R 0 = 0.7. (B) Primary case is in the over 20 age group.
2	342	349 disease	Disease	DOID_4

