0|chunk|Air-Liquid Interface Method To Study Epstein-Barr Virus Pathogenesis in Nasopharyngeal Epithelial Cells

1|chunk|Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is a ubiquitous gammaherpesvirus that establishes a latent reservoir in peripheral B-lymphocytes with sporadic reactivation. EBV also infects epithelial cells, predominantly resulting in a lytic infection, which may contribute to EBV transmission from saliva. In the nasopharynx, EBV infection can lead to the clonal expansion of a latently infected cell and the development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The mechanisms governing EBV pathogenesis in nasopharyngeal epithelium are largely unknown. An advanced understanding would depend on a physiologically relevant culture model of polarized airway epithelium. The recent application of the organotypic raft culture in keratinocytes has demonstrated great promise for the use of polarized cultures in the study of EBV permissive replication. In this study, the adaptation of an air-liquid interface (ALI) culture method using transwell membranes was explored in an EBV-infected NPC cell line. In the EBV-infected NPC HK1 cell line, ALI culture resulted in the completion of EBV reactivation, with global induction of the lytic cascade, replication of EBV genomes, and production of infectious progeny virus. We propose that the ALI culture method can be widely adopted as a physiologically relevant model to study EBV pathogenesis in polarized nasal epithelial cells. IMPORTANCE Lifting adherent cells to the air-liquid interface (ALI) is a method conventionally used to culture airway epithelial cells into polarized apical and basolateral surfaces. Reactivation of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) from monolayer epithelial cultures is sometimes abortive, which may be attributed to the lack of authentic reactivation triggers that occur in stratified epithelium in vivo. In the present work, the ALI culture method was applied to study EBV reactivation in nasopharyngeal epithelial cells. The ALI culture of an EBV-infected cell line yielded high titers and can be dissected by a variety of molecular virology assays that measure induction of the EBV lytic cascade and EBV genome replication and assembly. EBV infection of polarized cultures of primary epithelial cells can be challenging and can have variable efficiencies. However, the use of the ALI method with established EBV-infected cell lines offers a readily available and reproducible approach for the study of EBV permissive replication in polarized epithelia.
1	403	427 nasopharyngeal carcinoma	Disease	DOID_9261
1	418	427 carcinoma	Disease	DOID_305
1	959	962 NPC	Chemical	CHEBI_80552
1	994	997 NPC	Chemical	CHEBI_80552
1	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_9261	CHEBI_80552
1	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_305	CHEBI_80552

