0|chunk|A Simulation Optimization Approach to Epidemic Forecasting Supporting Information Individual-based Model

1|chunk|Individual-based epidemiology models are used to study the effects of public health interventions and changes in individual behavior to the dynamics of infectious diseases [1] . A detailed description of the individual-based model used in simulating the outbreaks in this study is presented in [2] . The individual-based model is made up of a dynamic social contact network and a disease transmission model. The social contact network which is a synthetic representation of a particular geographical region is generated using United States Census data. The structure of the underlying network is important since interactions between agents influences how disease propagates during epidemic simulations. In this initial study, neither changes in individual behavior nor intervention strategies are explored. However, in later studies to better understand the implications of specific intervention strategies, we would forecast disease dynamics given that effective measures have been introduced to control the spread of an outbreak.
1	380	387 disease	Disease	DOID_4
1	655	662 disease	Disease	DOID_4
1	926	933 disease	Disease	DOID_4

2|chunk|The construction of the dynamic social contact network requires two steps. In step 1 a synthetic population is created. Individuals in the synthetic population are tagged to realistic demographics while preserving the confidentiality of the original data sets. Each individual is assigned to a household using a decision tree based on demographic information (such as number of people in a household, number of children etc.) from data provided in SF3 and PUMA (Public Use Microdata Area) census files. Households are placed in realistic geographical regions. The synthetic population is statistically identical to the census aggregated at the block level. More information can be found in [3], [4] and [5].

3|chunk|Step 2 assigns a daily activity list with specified durations (start and end times) to each household based on several thousand responses to an activity or time-use survey. The activity templates which vary by region given factors such as the geographical location and age composition of the population, are created based on the National

