0|chunk|Abundance, survival, recruitment and effectiveness of sterilization of free-roaming dogs: A capture and recapture study in Brazil

1|chunk|The existence of free-roaming dogs raises important issues in animal welfare and in public health. A proper understanding of these animals' ecology is useful as a necessary input to plan strategies to control these populations. The present study addresses the population dynamics and the effectiveness of the sterilization of unrestricted dogs using capture and recapture procedures suitable for open animal populations. Every two months, over a period of 14 months, we captured, tagged, released and recaptured dogs in two regions in a city in the southeast region of Brazil. In one of these regions the animals were also sterilized. Both regions had similar social, environmental and demographic features. We estimated the presence of 148 females and 227 males during the period of study. The average dog:man ratio was 1 dog for each 42 and 51 human beings, in the areas without and with sterilization, respectively. The animal population size increased in both regions, due mainly to the abandonment of domestic dogs. Mortality rate decreased throughout the study period. Survival probabilities did not differ between genders, but males entered the population in higher numbers. There were no differences in abundance, survival and recruitment between the regions, indicating that sterilization did not affect the population dynamics. Our findings indicate that the observed animal dynamics were influenced by density-independent factors, and that sterilization might not be a viable and effective strategy in regions where availability of resources is low and animal abandonment rates are high. Furthermore, the high demographic turnover rates observed render the canine free-roaming population younger, thus more susceptible to diseases, especially to rabies and leishmaniasis. We conclude by stressing the importance of implementing educational programs to promote responsible animal ownership and effective strategies against abandonment practices.
1	1757	1763 rabies	Disease	DOID_11260

2|chunk|The study took place in the municipality of Divinpolis, Minas Gerais, Brazil, the largest in the Central-West region of the state, with 228,643 inhabitants and a literacy rate of 94.7% (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics-IBGE).

3|chunk|Regular public health measures involving dogs and implemented by the public services included sterilization of pet animals, when requested by owners, the capture and euthanasia of roaming dogs considered aggressive or diseased, and the capture of females along with their offspring for potential adoption by the local residents. Dogs not adopted were returned to the streets after the lactation period. Additional activities recommended by the Brazilian program on visceral leishmaniasis control, such as the culling of Leishmania-infected dogs, were also carried out on a regular basis [31, 32] , as well as vaccination campaigns against rabies [33] .
3	111	114 pet	Chemical	CHEBI_131701
3	465	487 visceral leishmaniasis	Disease	DOID_9146
3	474	487 leishmaniasis	Disease	DOID_9065
3	639	645 rabies	Disease	DOID_11260
3	CHEBI-DOID	CHEBI_131701	DOID_9146
3	CHEBI-DOID	CHEBI_131701	DOID_9065
3	CHEBI-DOID	CHEBI_131701	DOID_11260

4|chunk|We selected two similar geographic areas (Fig 1) : A (control) and B (intervention), with 3670 and 3900 inhabitants, respectively, according to the city hall registry. Both areas comprised four neighborhoods each and had similar profiles regarding size, household numbers and socioeconomic conditions.

5|chunk|Data collection and analysis complied with the ethical principles in animal experimentation as recommended by the Brazilian College of Animal Experimentation (COBEA). This project has Fig 1. Study setting: a. Brazil, the State of Minas Gerais appears highlighted; b. the State of Minas Gerais, the city of Divinpolis appears highlighted; c. Divinpolis, the two areas of capture appear highlighted (area Acontrol-in red; area B-intervention-in green); River in blue; Highway in orange.

