0|chunk|Unlocking bat immunology: establishment of Pteropus alecto bone marrow-derived dendritic cells and macrophages OPEN

1|chunk|Coronaviruses, yet they rarely display clinical symptoms of infection. Bat epithelial or fibroblast cell lines were previously established to study the bat immune response against viral infection. However, the lack of professional immune cells such as dendritic cells (DC) and macrophages has greatly limited the significance of current investigations. Using Pteropus alecto (P. alecto) GM-CSF plus IL4, FLT3L and CSF-1, we successfully generated bat bone marrow-derived DC and macrophages. Cells with the phenotype, morphology and functional features of monocyte-derived DC, bona fide DC or macrophages were obtained in GM-CSF/IL4, FLT3L or CSF-1 cultures, respectively. The successful generation of the first bat bone marrow-derived immune cells paves the way to unlocking the immune mechanisms that confer host resilience to pathogens in bats.

2|chunk|Bats serve as reservoir hosts for viruses that are related to many deadly emerging diseases in humans including Nipah virus, Hendra virus, SARS-like Coronavirus and Ebola virus 1-5 . Interestingly, bats carrying these viruses, which are pathogenic in humans and other mammals, show no clinical signs of diseases under natural or experimental infection conditions 3,6-9 . This unique ability may reflect an unknown interaction between these bat viruses and the bat immune system as a result of extensive co-evolution over a long period of time 10 .

3|chunk|Development of bat cell lines is essential for studying the bat immune system, particularly viral-host interaction under in vitro conditions. To this end, various non-immune bat cell lines, originating from either insectivorous or fruit-bats and covering multiple species, had been constructed including Pteropus, Eidolon, Hypsignathus, Rousettus, Epomops, Myotis and Tadarida bats 11-14 . These cell lines, either primary or immortalized, supported bat viral infection studies and basic host responses. In contrast to the rapid clearance or reduction of bat viruses evident in in vivo experiments, viral replication does not appear to be significantly different to other hosts. However, when comparing the multiple in vitro studies in these bat cell lines 14-16 , bat viruses exhibited subversion of the bat immune system 11,16 . These observations prompted us to ask whether these bat cells serve as an appropriate model for studying the bat immune response.
3	454	469 viral infection	Disease	DOID_934

4|chunk|Dendritic cells (DC) are professional antigen-presenting cells that initiate and regulate the pathogen-specific adaptive immune responses and are central to the development of immunologic memory and tolerance 17-19 , whereas macrophages are critical effector cells and regulators of inflammation and the innate immune responses 20,21 . Possibly equipped with all the major innate immune recognition receptors, they can secrete cytokines, interferons and pro-inflammatory factors to activate and recruit immune cells to the site of infection upon recognition of pathogens 18-23 . Understanding how bat DC and macrophages respond to viruses is critical
4	250	258 effector	Chemical	CHEBI_35224

