0|chunk|Experience of 16 years and its associated challenges in the Field Epidemiology Training Program in Korea Current states, past experiences, and achievements of KFETP Selection of field epidemiologists

1|chunk|In the case of outbreaks of infectious diseases, it is imperative to find sources of infection through timely epidemiological investigations and to establish an appropriate prevention method based on the results of the investigations. However, inadequate initial epidemiological investigations sometimes lead to an inability to elucidate the causes of the spreading of infectious diseases and to establish clear disease prevention strategies as well as strategies to prevent recurrence. For timely prevention, it is necessary to find the sources and routes of infection through prompt epidemiological investigations in the initial stages of outbreak. To do this, the availability of epidemiology experts in infectious diseases and staff dedicated to infectious diseases is the most crucial factor [1]. Nevertheless, South Korea (hereafter Korea) currently lacks experienced field epidemiologists who have an adequate understanding of epidemiology of infectious diseases [2] .
1	412	419 disease	Disease	DOID_4

2|chunk|The expertise of field epidemiologists requires sufficient field data and an ability to make epidemiological judgments for making decisions relating to public health [3] . In the last Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreak in May 2015 criticism on the lack of field epidemiologists available to conduct epidemiological investigations in emergency situations and the lack of con-OBJECTIVES: The field epidemiologist system of South Korea, which employs public health doctors who are relatively more readily available, was created in 1999 to ensure a ready supply of experts for epidemiological investigations and enable an effective response for new and reemerging infectious diseases. However, the 2015 outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome revealed limitations in the existing systems of management of field epidemiologists and communicable diseases.
2	184	216 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome	Disease	DOID_0080642
2	208	216 Syndrome	Disease	DOID_225
2	725	757 Middle East Respiratory Syndrome	Disease	DOID_0080642
2	749	757 Syndrome	Disease	DOID_225

3|chunk|The present study aims to evaluate data on current states, administrative reports, and other literature on the field epidemiologist system that has been in place in South Korea for 16 years since 1999 and to suggest appropriate future improvements in this system.

4|chunk|By suggesting methods to evaluate the field epidemiologist system and training programs and by suggesting ways for the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to conduct evaluations on its own, the present study provides supporting evidence for improvement of systems for training of experts in epidemiological investigations. Moreover, based on the findings, this study also suggests methods to systematically train experts in communicable diseases management and a sustainable system to establish the basis of and develop strategies for a systematic and phased management of field epidemiologist training programs.
4	137	144 Disease	Disease	DOID_4

5|chunk|The present study suggests the possibility of establishing dedicated training facilities, revising the guidelines on training and improvement of the competency of public health experts, while not limiting the scope of application to communicable diseases.

