0|chunk|The human viral challenge model: accelerating the evaluation of respiratory antivirals, vaccines and novel diagnostics

1|chunk|The Human Viral Challenge (HVC) model has, for many decades, helped in the understanding of respiratory viruses and their role in disease pathogenesis. In a controlled setting using small numbers of volunteers removed from community exposure to other infections, this experimental model enables proof of concept work to be undertaken on novel therapeutics, including vaccines, immunomodulators and antivirals, as well as new diagnostics. Crucially, unlike conventional phase 1 studies, challenge studies include evaluable efficacy endpoints that then guide decisions on how to optimise subsequent field studies, as recommended by the FDA and thus licensing studies that follow. Such a strategy optimises the benefit of the studies and identifies possible threats early on, minimising the risk to subsequent volunteers but also maximising the benefit of scarce resources available to the research group investing in the research. Inspired by the principles of the 3Rs (Replacement, Reduction and Refinement) now commonly applied in the preclinical phase, HVC studies allow refinement and reduction of the subsequent development phase, accelerating progress towards further statistically powered phase 2b studies. The breadth of data generated from challenge studies allows for exploration of a wide range of variables and endpoints that can then be taken through to pivotal phase 3 studies. We describe the disease burden for acute respiratory viral infections for which current conventional development strategies have failed to produce therapeutics that meet clinical need. The Authors describe the HVC model's utility in increasing scientific understanding and in progressing promising therapeutics through development.
1	122	126 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906
1	130	137 disease	Disease	DOID_4
1	377	393 immunomodulators	Chemical	CHEBI_50846
1	1406	1413 disease	Disease	DOID_4
1	CHEBI-DOID	CHEBI_50906	DOID_4
1	DOID-CHEBI	DOID_4	CHEBI_50846

2|chunk|The contribution of the model to the elucidation of the virus-host interaction, both regarding viral pathogenicity and the body's immunological response is discussed, along with its utility to assist in the development of novel diagnostics. Future applications of the model are also explored.

3|chunk|This review aims to describe the Human Viral Challenge model; its history, its utility and specifically how it has recently been, and can be used, to potentially accelerate the development of novel therapies for the unmet medical needs of respiratory disease.

