0|chunk|Highly Efficient Transgenesis in Ferrets Using CRISPR/Cas9- Mediated Homology-Independent Insertion at the ROSA26 Locus

1|chunk|The domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo) has proven to be a useful species for modeling human genetic and infectious diseases of the lung and brain. However, biomedical research in ferrets has been hindered by the lack of rapid and cost-effective methods for genome engineering. Here, we utilized CRISPR/Cas9-mediated, homology-independent insertion at the ROSA26 "safe harbor" locus in ferret zygotes and created transgenic animals expressing a dual-fluorescent Cre-reporter system flanked by PhiC31 and Bxb1 integrase attP sites. Out of 151 zygotes injected with circular transgene-containing plasmid and Cas9 protein loaded with the ROSA26 intron-1 sgRNA, there were 23 births of which 5 had targeted integration events (22% efficiency). The encoded tdTomato transgene was highly expressed in all tissues evaluated. Targeted integration was verified by PCR analyses, Southern blot, and germline transmission. Function of the ROSA26-CAG-LoxP tdTomato StopLoxP EGFP (ROSA-TG) Cre-reporter was confirmed in primary cells following Cre expression. The Phi31 and Bxb1 integrase attP sites flanking the transgene will also enable rapid directional insertion of any transgene without a size limitation at the ROSA26 locus. These methods and the model generated will greatly enhance biomedical research involving lineage tracing, the evaluation of stem cell therapy, and transgenesis in ferret models of human disease.

2|chunk|Animal models of human diseases are indispensable for dissecting disease pathophysiology and developing therapies. While mice have been extremely helpful in modeling human diseases, in some cases they are inadequate due to species-specific differences in the cell biology of the affected organ and/or the evolutionary divergence of their genome. The domestic ferret (Mustela putorius furo) has proven an excellent species for modeling certain human diseases when mice have failed, and technologies for genetic engineering in ferrets have expanded the potential use of this species for human disease research. However, until now, techniques for generating transgenic and knockout ferrets have predominantly relied upon genetic manipulation of fibroblasts followed by somatic cell nuclear transfer 1,2 . Such an approach is labor intensive and expensive. More recently, both clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeat (CRISPR)/Cas9-and transcription activator-like effector nuclease (TALEN)-mediated approaches have been used to generate knockout ferrets 3,4 . Here, we present a rapid method for generating transgenic ferrets using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated targeted insertion at the ROSA26 locus in ferret zygotes.
2	279	287 affected	Phenotype	HP_0032320

3|chunk|The domestic ferret is traditionally known for its ability to model pandemic and seasonal influenza virus infection and transmission to the lung 5 . Additionally, ferrets develop multi-organ lethal disease following Ebolavirus infection 6 and can replicate and transmit severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 7 . The similar cellular distribution of viral receptors in the lung between humans and ferrets likely accounts for the ability of the ferret to serve as a good model of influenza infection 8, 9 . Further, the conserved stem cell biology in the lung between these two species also likely contributes to the ability of ferrets to model bronchiolitis obliterans in an allograft lung Published: xx xx xxxx opeN www.nature.com/scientificreports/
3	270	276 severe	Phenotype	HP_0012828
3	277	282 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009
3	651	664 bronchiolitis	Phenotype	HP_0011950
3	651	675 bronchiolitis obliterans	Phenotype	HP_0011946

