0|chunk|viruses Review From SARS to MERS, Thrusting Coronaviruses into the Spotlight

1|chunk|Coronaviruses (CoVs) have formerly been regarded as relatively harmless respiratory pathogens to humans. However, two outbreaks of severe respiratory tract infection, caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) and the Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), as a result of zoonotic CoVs crossing the species barrier, caused high pathogenicity and mortality rates in human populations. This brought CoVs global attention and highlighted the importance of controlling infectious pathogens at international borders. In this review, we focus on our current understanding of the epidemiology, pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, as well as provides details on the pivotal structure and function of the spike proteins (S proteins) on the surface of each of these viruses. For building up more suitable animal models, we compare the current animal models recapitulating pathogenesis and summarize the potential role of host receptors contributing to diverse host affinity in various species. We outline the research still needed to fully elucidate the pathogenic mechanism of these viruses, to construct reproducible animal models, and ultimately develop countermeasures to conquer not only SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV, but also these emerging coronaviral diseases. [6] provided insight for researchers into the origin of this novel coronavirus. Notably, the SARS pandemic was declared to be over in 2004 when no more infections in patients were being detected. Subsequently, certain SARS-CoV-like viruses found in bats demonstrated the ability to infect human cells without prior adaptation [7, 8] which indicates the possibility of the re-emergence of SARS-CoV or SARS-CoV-like viruses.
1	778	786 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
1	790	798 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
1	979	983 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906
1	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_36080	CHEBI_50906

2|chunk|A decade later in June 2012, another highly pathogenic and novel coronavirus, MERS-CoV, was isolated from the sputum of a male patient who died from acute pneumonia and renal failure in Saudi Arabia [9] . Nosocomial infections were reported, and international travel led to the transmission of MERS-CoV to countries outside of the Arabian Peninsula, causing it to become a global pathophoresis. In May 2015, an outbreak of MERS occurred in South Korea due to an individual returning from the Middle East [10] . Based on the lessons learned from managing SARS-CoV prevalence over the last decade, tremendous progress toward unraveling the biological characteristics of MERS-CoV has been achieved at an unprecedented speed. Scientific advancements have allowed for rapid and systemic progress in our understanding of the epidemiology and pathogenesis of MERS-CoV.

3|chunk|SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV share several important common features that contribute to nosocomial transmission, preferential viral replication in the lower respiratory tract, and viral immunopathology. This review highlights the epidemiology and pathogenesis of these viruses, including our current understanding of their biological characteristics, their transmission, and their replication in the host. The spike proteins (S proteins) of CoVs play pivotal roles in viral infection and pathogenesis. As critical surface-located trimeric glycoproteins of CoVs, they guide entry into host cells. In this review, we summarize the structure and function of the S proteins and therapeutics designed to target them. Moreover, we will explore how CoV-host interactions cause pathogenic outcomes and discuss potential treatment options, as well as describe recent mammalian models that closely recapitulate the pathogenic process and have contributed to the development of prevention and treatment strategies for SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV. Although several potential therapies have been identified with SARS and MERS in animal and in vitro models, human clinical trials remain lacking, hindering the advancement of these potential countermeasures.
3	409	417 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
3	421	429 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
3	532	545 glycoproteins	Chemical	CHEBI_17089
3	654	662 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
3	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_36080	CHEBI_17089

4|chunk|Epidemiology of SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV

