0|chunk|Cross-species transmission potential between wild pigs, livestock, poultry, wildlife, and humans: implications for disease risk management in North America OPEN

1|chunk|threat. Here we investigate 84 pathogens and the host species most at risk for transmission with wild pigs using a network approach. We assess the risk to agricultural and human health by evaluating the status of these pathogens and the co-occurrence of wild pigs, agriculture and humans. We identified 34 (87%) OIE listed swine pathogens that cause clinical disease in livestock, poultry, wildlife, and humans. On average 73% of bacterial, 39% of viral, and 63% of parasitic pathogens caused clinical disease in other species. Non-porcine livestock in the family Bovidae shared the most pathogens with swine (82%). Only 49% of currently listed OIE domestic swine diseases had published wild pig surveillance studies. The co-occurrence of wild pigs and farms increased annually at a rate of 1.2% with as much as 57% of all farms and 77% of all agricultural animals co-occurring with wild pigs. The increasing co-occurrence of wild pigs with livestock and humans along with the large number of pathogens shared is a growing risk for cross-species transmission.

2|chunk|Diseases transmitted between humans, wildlife, and domestic animals are increasingly challenging public and veterinary health systems 1, 2 . In North America, it is estimated that at least 79% of reportable domestic animal diseases have a putative wildlife component associated with the transmission, maintenance, or life cycle of the pathogen and at least 40% are zoonotic 3 . Similarly three-fourths of all emerging infectious diseases (EIDs) of humans are zoonotic with most originating from wildlife reservoirs 4, 5 . Therefore, diseases that arise from the livestock-wildlife interface are of paramount importance and must be an area of focus for public and veterinary health systems 6 . Despite this importance cross-species transmission is one of the least studied aspects of disease ecology 7, 8 .

3|chunk|Wild pigs (Sus scrofa), that include feral domestic pigs (Sus scrofa domestica), Eurasian wild boar (Sus scrofa linnaeus), and hybrids between the two, are the most abundant free-ranging, exotic ungulates in North America 9 . Recently, wild pigs in North America have become of increasing concern as a potential veterinary and public health threat for cross-species transmission 9, 10 . Research and policy addressing wild pig disease has received increased attention in recent years 9-11 . This is driven, in part, by substantial range expansion, increasing ecological and agricultural damage, and increased involvement of wild pigs in disease transmission 9 . In North America, wild pigs have expanded their range to at least 41 states in the United States and three provinces in Canada since the 1960s 9, 10, 12 and recent modeling indicates that their potential range may be far greater 13 . Published: xx xx xxxx OPEN www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 2 SCIENtIFIC RePoRTS | 7: 7821 |

