0|chunk|Genomic analysis of respiratory syncytial virus infections in households and utility in inferring who infects the infant

1|chunk|Over an entire single RSV season in coastal Kenya, nasal swabs were collected from members of 20 households every 3-4 days regardless of symptom status and screened for RSV nucleic acid. Next generation sequencing was used to generate >90% RSV full-length genomes for 51.1% of positive samples (191/374). Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) observed during household infection outbreaks ranged from 0-21 (median: 3) while SNPs observed during single-host infection episodes ranged from 0-17 (median: 1). Using the viral genomic data alone there was insufficient resolution to fully reconstruct withinhousehold transmission chains. For households with clear index cases, the most likely source of infant infection was via a toddler (aged 1 to <3 years-old) or school-aged (aged 6 to <12 years-old) cooccupant. However, for best resolution of WAIFW within households, we suggest an integrated analysis of RSV genomic and epidemiological data.
1	312	322 nucleotide	Chemical	CHEBI_36976

2|chunk|Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a leading viral cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia during infancy 1 . Global estimates in 2015 indicated that RSV causes ~33.1 million episodes of acute lower respiratory tract illness annually, ~3.2 million of which lead to hospital admissions and ~60,000 deaths in hospitalized children aged under 5 years 1 . Despite this burden, our understanding of RSV transmission patterns during epidemics, including who infects the vulnerable infant populations remains incomplete 2 . Defining the patterns of RSV transmission during epidemics, and specifically Who Acquires Infection From Whom (WAIFW) has the potential to inform control strategies 3,4 .

3|chunk|RSV transmission occurs during contact with an infectious person or contaminated environmental surfaces 5 . Households are considered an important setting for RSV spread due to likely close person-to-person contacts 6,7 . A family study in the United States in the 1970s showed that up to 46% of family members and 62% of infants in the household become infected once the virus is introduced into a household 8 . Since this study, important advances have been made in diagnostic sensitivity and characterisation of infection sources for household cases,

