0|chunk|Armed Forces Health Surveillance Center (AFHSC) and Cherokee Nation Technology Solutions

1|chunk|Background: Population-based serologic studies are a vital tool for understanding the epidemiology of influenza and other respiratory viruses, including the early assessment of the transmissibility and severity of the 2009 influenza pandemic, and Middle

2|chunk|East respiratory syndrome coronavirus. However, interpretation of the results of serologic studies has been hampered by the diversity of approaches and the lack of standardized methods and reporting.

3|chunk|Objective: The objective of the CONSISE ROSES-I statement was to improve the quality and transparency of reporting of influenza seroepidemiologic studies and facilitate the assessment of the validity and generalizability of published results.

4|chunk|The ROSES-I statement was developed as an expert consensus of the CON-SISE epidemiology and laboratory working groups. The recommendations are presented in the familiar format of a reporting guideline. Because seroepidemiologic studies are a specific type of observational epidemiology study, the ROSES-I statement is built upon the STROBE guidelines. As such, the ROSES-I statement should be seen as an extension of the STROBE guidelines.

5|chunk|The ROSES-I statement presents 42 items that can be used as a checklist of the information that should be included in the results of published seroepidemiologic studies, and which can also serve as a guide to the items that need to be considered during study design and implementation.

6|chunk|We hope that the ROSES-I statement will contribute to improving the quality of reporting of seroepidemiologic studies. on behalf of the CONSISE Steering Committee*

7|chunk|For all pathogens, cases of symptomatic illness from infections that are detected through routine healthcare statistics, laboratory networks, or other surveillance and reporting systems are only a small proportion of infections affecting a population. Relying on case incidence detected by this information alone can lead to large underestimates of infection rates and overestimates of severity of illness among the general population. 1 Prior to, or during the early stages of epidemics, serologic testing of affected populations can provide valuable information on the proportion of the population that have a low titer of cross-reactive *CONSISE Steering Committee members are listed in Appendix 1. Retired.

