0|chunk|Patient and health system delays before registration among migrant patients with tuberculosis who were transferred out in China

1|chunk|Background: Early diagnosis and treatment is vital for effective tuberculosis (TB) management especially among migrant populations who are a vulnerable group. We aimed to study factors associated with delay before registration at country level among registered migrant TB patients in China (2014-15) who were transferred out (during treatment) through web-based TB information management system (TBIMS). Methods: This was a cross sectional study involving review of TBIMS data. Delays (in days) were classified as follows: patient delay (from symptom onset to first doctor visit), health system delay (from first doctor visit to treatment initiation, divided into health system diagnosis and treatment delay before and after date of diagnosis respectively), diagnosis delay (from symptom onset to diagnosis) and total delay (from symptom onset to treatment initiation). Linear regression was used to build a predictive model (forward stepwise) for the socio-demographic, clinical and health system related factors associated with delay: one model for each type of delay. Delays were log transformed and included in the model.

2|chunk|The median (IQR) patient delay, health system delay and total delay was 16 (6, 34), two (0, 6) and 22 (11, 41) days respectively. Factors associated with long patient, diagnosis and total delay were: female gender, age  65 years, sputum smear positive pulmonary TB and registration at referral hospital. Treatment initiation delay was significantly higher among those registered in referral hospitals, unemployed and previously treated. Among migrant patients having permanent residence out of province, health system diagnosis delay was significantly higher while treatment initiation delay after diagnosis was significantly lower when compared to patients having permanent residence within the prefecture.

3|chunk|Conclusion: Among migrant population with TB, patient delay contributed to the total delay. The factors identified including the need for improved coordination between referral hospitals and national programme have to be addressed if China has to end TB.

