0|chunk|Selection of reference genes for the quantitative real-time PCR normalization of gene expression in Isatis indigotica fortune

1|chunk|Background: Isatis indigotica, a traditional Chinese medicine, produces a variety of active ingredients. However, little is known about the key genes and corresponding expression profiling involved in the biosynthesis pathways of these ingredients. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is a powerful, commonly-used method for gene expression analysis, but the accuracy of the quantitative data produced depends on the appropriate selection of reference genes.

2|chunk|In this study, the systematic analysis of the reference genes was performed for quantitative real-Time PCR normalization in I. indigotica. We selected nine candidate reference genes, including six traditional housekeeping genes (ACT , -TUB, -TUB, UBC, CYP, and EF1-), and three newly stable internal control genes (MUB, TIP41, and RPL) from a transcriptome dataset of I. indigotica, and evaluated their expression stabilities in different tissues (root, stem, leaf, and petiole) and leaves exposed to three abiotic treatments (low-nitrogen, ABA, and MeJA) using geNorm, Nor-mFinder, BestKeeper, and comprehensive RefFind algorithms. The results demonstrated that MUB and EF1- were the two most stable reference genes for all samples. TIP41 as the optimal reference gene for low-nitrogen stress and MeJA treatment, while ACT had the highest ranking for ABA treatment and CYP was the most suitable for different tissues.
2	254	257 CYP	Chemical	CHEBI_38559
2	544	547 ABA	Chemical	CHEBI_2365
2	856	859 ABA	Chemical	CHEBI_2365
2	874	877 CYP	Chemical	CHEBI_38559
2	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_38559	CHEBI_2365

3|chunk|The results revealed that the selection and validation of appropriate reference genes for normalizing data is mandatory to acquire accurate quantification results. The necessity of specific internal control for specific conditions was also emphasized. Furthermore, this work will provide valuable information to enhance further research in gene function and molecular biology on I. indigotica and other related species.

