0|chunk|A Simulation Study Comparing Epidemic Dynamics on Exponential Random Graph and Edge-Triangle Configuration Type Contact Network Models

1|chunk|We compare two broad types of empirically grounded random network models in terms of their abilities to capture both network features and simulated Susceptible-Infected-Recovered (SIR) epidemic dynamics. The types of network models are exponential random graph models (ERGMs) and extensions of the configuration model. We use three kinds of empirical contact networks, chosen to provide both variety and realistic patterns of human contact: a highly clustered network, a bipartite network and a snowball sampled network of a "hidden population". In the case of the snowball sampled network we present a novel method for fitting an edge-triangle model. In our results, ERGMs consistently capture clustering as well or better than configuration-type models, but the latter models better capture the node degree distribution. Despite the additional computational requirements to fit ERGMs to empirical networks, the use of ERGMs provides only a slight improvement in the ability of the models to recreate epidemic features of the empirical network in simulated SIR epidemics. Generally, SIR epidemic results from using configuration-type models fall between those from a random network model (i.e., an Erds-Rnyi model) and an ERGM. The addition of subgraphs of size four to edge-triangle type models does improve agreement with the empirical network for smaller densities in clustered networks. Additional subgraphs do not make a noticeable difference in our example, although we would expect the ability to model cliques to be helpful for contact networks exhibiting household structure.

2|chunk|where E(T) is the average transmissibility over all infectious and susceptible nodes [6, 8] . Using bond percolation arguments, an epidemic is possible only when R 0 > 1 (as for compartmental models), or equivalently the transmissibility exceeds a critical transmissibility [9] , T c , given by

3|chunk|In more general configuration-type networks with triangles and other small-cycle subgraphs, Eq (1) no longer applies. Although the degree distribution will be the same, fewer susceptible nodes will be available for an infection in the early stages of an outbreak, and we would expect the critical transmissibility to be higher, although the extent to which Eq (1) must be modified is the subject of research. Miller [8] considers approximations of R 0 using additional subgraphs, and suggests clustering affects the final epidemic size only if the typical node degrees are small or clustering is very high. The expression for unclustered networks in Eq (1) also serves as a useful guideline and bound.

4|chunk|The "edge-triangle" model is a generalisation of the configuration model that includes clustering [10, 11] . In short, single edges are counted separately from triangles. Each node i has s i single edges ("stubs") and t i triangle vertices ("corners"). Networks are formed by connecting pairs of stubs at random and triples of corners at random. The joint distribution of stubs and corners is the analogue to the degree distribution in this model. Volz et al.

5|chunk|[12] derive a deterministic solution for an SIR epidemic process on edge-triangle configuration networks. They also derive a solution for final epidemic size of clustered networks that is asymptotically exact for large network sizes using bond percolation approximation methods. Importantly they also extend their results on epidemic dynamics beyond edge-triangle configuration networks to a further generalisation that includes cliques (i.e., fully connected subgraphs) of size 4 and above to model household structure. Cliques of size n are included in the network model by analogy with trianglessize n clique corners are counted in addition to stubs and triangle corners. We note two of their key results. 1) The global clustering coefficient is not sufficient to determine the full epidemiological impact of clustering. Comparing with a different model [13] such that the two models are calibrated to have the same degree distribution, the same global clustering coefficient and the same disease parameters, epidemic dynamics can be quite different, especially when clustering is extensive. Thus, the specific nature of the clustering appears relevant for epidemic dynamics. 2) Clustering slows epidemics and reduces final size, at least for a particular subclass of edge-triangle networks considered (negative binomial degree distribution, tunable fraction of edges in triangles, mean and variance of the degree distribution held constant).
5	28	36 solution	Chemical	CHEBI_75958
5	125	133 solution	Chemical	CHEBI_75958

6|chunk|Separately, a simulation study [14] has considered the situations when contact network models, not random mixing, are warranted. When the number of contacts per day is large, or the transmissibility of the infection is high (e.g. mumps, measles, pertussis, chickenpox), random mixing models produce adequate results. On the other hand, when numbers of contacts and transmissibility are low (e.g. MRSA, possibly Ebola), network contact structure is important.

7|chunk|A key weakness of the edge-triangle networks [10, 12] is that triangles (and larger cliques) share a node but not an edge (i.e., no overlapping "motifs", referred to here as subgraphs). A generalisation that allows arbitrary subgraphs beyond cliques has been proposed [15] for which network features (and importantly, percolation results for epidemic dynamics) remain solvable. For example, the necessary generating functions are provided for edges, triangles, squares, diamonds (a square with diagonal, also known as a 2-triangle), and 4-cliques. The joint distribution for node "roles" is the key distribution of interest. These five subgraphs require six node roles (i.e., two for the diamond). Analogous to the degree sequence is the "role sequence" which is a vector for each node, counting the number of each role in which that Comparing Epidemics on ERGMs and Configuration Type Network Models PLOS ONE |
7	739	743 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906
7	815	819 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906
7	906	909 ONE	Chemical	CHEBI_58972
7	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_50906	CHEBI_58972

