0|chunk|Mapping road network communities for guiding disease surveillance and control strategies OPEN

1|chunk|Human mobility is increasing in its volume, speed and reach, leading to the movement and introduction of pathogens through infected travelers. An understanding of how areas are connected, the strength of these connections and how this translates into disease spread is valuable for planning surveillance and designing control and elimination strategies. While analyses have been undertaken to identify and map connectivity in global air, shipping and migration networks, such analyses have yet to be undertaken on the road networks that carry the vast majority of travellers in low and middle income settings. Here we present methods for identifying road connectivity communities, as well as mapping bridge areas between communities and key linkage routes. We apply these to Africa, and show how many highly-connected communities straddle national borders and when integrating malaria prevalence and population data as an example, the communities change, highlighting regions most strongly connected to areas of high burden. The approaches and results presented provide a flexible tool for supporting the design of disease surveillance and control strategies through mapping areas of high connectivity that form coherent units of intervention and key link routes between communities for targeting surveillance.

2|chunk|The world is continuing to become more connected. The speed and reach of global transport infrastructure is increasing, as well as the numbers of travelers using them. An unintended consequence of this is the increasing transport of pathogens, with more outbreaks becoming global pandemics than ever before 1 . Recent pandemics, such as SARS 2 , H5N1 3 and H1N1 4 spread rapidly between and within countries through the movement of infected travelers by air, land and sea. Moreover, rising global connectivity is facilitating the increasingly rapid spread of drug resistance 5-7 . The growth of transport networks is a key factor in driving the speed and extent of disease spread. While air and shipping networks provide long distance connections, enabling rapid pathogen, host and vector movements 8-10 , the vast majority of shorter distance movements take place over land. This is particularly true in low income settings, where poorer populations are disproportionately affected by infectious diseases and air travel often remains the preserve of wealthier people. Evidence of the importance of regional connectivity through road networks on infectious disease spread is growing 11-14 . The 2015 West Africa Ebola outbreak illustrated how the emergence of a disease in a highly inter-connected region with poor surveillance capacity facilitated rapid spread, compared to previous outbreaks in poorly connected areas 15,16 . The density, pattern and amount of road in a region is indicative of how populations are physically connected. Dense road networks develop to serve the needs of highly populated regions covering many settlements, facilitating and promoting extensive and regular travel between them 17,18 . In contrast, areas with relatively fewer roads are indicative of lower population densities, lower rates of travel and poorer connectivity. Being able to quantify and map these differing types of regions provides potentially valuable information for tackling infectious diseases.
2	559	563 drug	Chemical	CHEBI_23888

3|chunk|The study of road network structure has a long tradition. The general approach, which matured as an integration of transportation geography with graph theory 19,20 , is to model a road system as a network (or graph) and then to study its topological structure. More recently, network science coupled with the availability of large transport datasets, has boosted the study of road networks 21 . There is now a considerable body of knowledge on road network structure 22-24 , evolution and environmental and societal impact 25 . However, in contrast to other societal

