0|chunk|Comparative and kinetic analysis of viral shedding and immunological responses in MERS patients representing a broad spectrum of disease severity OPEN

1|chunk|Despite the ongoing spread of MERS, there is limited knowledge of the factors affecting its severity and outcomes. We analyzed clinical data and specimens from fourteen MERS patients treated in a hospital who collectively represent a wide spectrum of disease severity, ranging from mild febrile illness to fatal pneumonia, and classified the patients into four groups based on severity and mortality. Comparative and kinetic analyses revealed that high viral loads, weak antibody responses, and lymphopenia accompanying thrombocytopenia were associated with disease mortality, whereas persistent and gradual increases in lymphocyte responses might be required for effective immunity against MERS-CoV infection. Leukocytosis, primarily due to increased neutrophils and monocytes, was generally observed in more severe and fatal cases. The blood levels of cytokines such as IL-10, IL-15, TGF-, and EGF were either positively or negatively correlated with disease mortality. Robust induction of various chemokines with differential kinetics was more prominent in patients that recovered from pneumonia than in patients with mild febrile illness or deceased patients. The correlation of the virological and immunological responses with disease severity and mortality, as well as their responses to current antiviral therapy, may have prognostic significance during the early phase of MERS.
1	897	900 EGF	Chemical	CHEBI_140739
1	1303	1312 antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587
1	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_140739	CHEBI_22587

2|chunk|The Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) is an emerging zoonotic pathogen that causes acute and severe respiratory illness with a high mortality rate 1 . Since 2012, more than 1,600 patients have been reported and the mortality rate approaches 35% 2 . Primary transmission of MERS-CoV might be mediated by close contact between humans and infected animal reservoirs such as camels 3,4 . However, in Middle Eastern countries, most MERS cases are associated with human-to-human spread starting in healthcare settings that then spark sporadic outbreaks 5 . An unexpected large outbreak in South Korea (186 confirmed cases with 38 deaths), initiated by an infected traveler from the Arabian peninsula, was also attributed to nosocomial infections 6 and highlights our limited knowledge of this emerging infectious disease 7 .

3|chunk|The major symptoms of MERS cases are acute viral pneumonia often associated with extrapulmonary manifestations such as enteric illness 5 . Patients infected with MERS-CoV present with a wide range of clinical severity varying from asymptomatic to severe pneumonia with respiratory failure 5 . Mortality mainly results from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 4, 5, 8 . Currently, the pathogenesis of the pulmonary and extrapulmonary manifestations of MERS remains poorly defined and knowledge of factors affecting disease severity is limited, although underlying illness, older age, and high viral loads are associated with poorer outcomes 5,8-10 .

4|chunk|Since the outbreak of MERS in South Korea was initiated by an infected person, the clinical courses and epidemiological features, including exposure periods, are well documented for most cases 6,11 . Most patients that developed respiratory illness received a combined antiviral therapy composed of pegylated interferon (IFN)- , ribavirin, and lopinavir/ritonavir, a treatment with unknown efficacy 12,13 . We sought to identify the factors dictating disease severity and the outcomes of patients treated with antiviral regimens. Here, we retrospectively analyzed clinical data from fourteen hospitalized MERS patients who collectively represent a wide spectrum of disease severity, ranging from mild febrile illness to fatal pneumonia. In addition, we investigated virological and immunological features of the patients using clinical samples acquired during various stages of MERS progression. Comparative and kinetic analyses may provide valuable insight into the critical factors affecting disease progression and severity as well as the underlying mechanisms contributing to MERS pathogenesis.
4	269	278 antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587
4	309	319 interferon	Chemical	CHEBI_52999
4	511	520 antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587
4	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_22587	CHEBI_52999

