0|chunk|Virus-triggered exacerbation in allergic asthmatic children: neutrophilic airway inflammation and alteration of virus sensors characterize a subgroup of patients

1|chunk|Background: Viruses are important triggers of asthma exacerbations. They are also detected outside of exacerbation. Alteration of anti-viral response in asthmatic patients has been shown although the mechanisms responsible for this defect remain unclear. The objective of this study was to compare in virus-infected and not-infected allergic asthmatic children, aged 6 to 16 years, admitted to hospital for a severe exacerbation, the innate immune response and especially the expression of pattern recognition receptor (PRR) and their function.

2|chunk|Methods: Virus identification was performed both during the exacerbation and at steady state (eight weeks later). Data assessed at both periods included clinical features, anti-viral response and inflammation (in sputum and plasma), and PRR expression/function in blood mononuclear cells.

3|chunk|Results: Viruses were identified in 46 out of 72 children (median age 8.9 years) during exacerbation, and among them, in 17 at steady state. IFN-, IFN- and IL-29 levels in sputum and plasma were similar between infected and not infected patients at both times, as well as the expression of TLR3, RIG-I and MDA5 in blood monocytes and dendritic cells. Airway inflammation in infected patients was characterized by significantly higher IL-5 concentration and eosinophil count. Compared to patients only infected at exacerbation, the re-infected children significantly exhibited lower levels of IFN- in plasma and sputum at exacerbation associated with modifications in PRR expression and function in blood mononuclear cells. These re-infected patients also presented an airway neutrophilic inflammation at steady state.

4|chunk|Conclusion: Our results reports in asthmatic children that impaired anti-viral response during virus-induced exacerbation is more pronounced in a subgroup of patients prone to re-infection by virus. This subgroup is characterized by altered PRR function and a different pattern of airway inflammation.

5|chunk|Trial registration: This multicenter prospective study was approved by the regional investigational review board (ref: 08/07).

