0|chunk|Endemicity and prevalence of multipartite viruses under heterogeneous between-host transmission Author summary

1|chunk|Multipartite viruses replicate through a puzzling evolutionary strategy. Their genome is segmented into two or more parts, and encapsidated in separate particles that appear to propagate independently. Completing the replication cycle, however, requires the full genome, so that a systemic infection of a host requires the concurrent presence of several particles. This represents an apparent evolutionary drawback of multipartitism, while its advantages remain unclear. A transition from monopartite to multipartite viral forms has been described in vitro under conditions of high multiplicity of infection, suggesting that cooperation between defective mutants is a plausible evolutionary pathway towards multipartitism. However, it is unknown how the putative advantages that multipartitism might enjoy at the microscopic level affect its epidemiology, or if an explicit advantange is needed to explain its ecological persistence. In order to disentangle which mechanisms might contribute to the rise and fixation of multipartitism, we here investigate the interaction between viral spreading dynamics and host population structure. We set up a compartmental model of the spread of a virus in its different forms and explore its epidemiology using both analytical and numerical techniques. We uncover that the impact of host contact structure on spreading dynamics entails a rich phenomenology of ecological relationships that includes cooperation, competition, and commensality. Furthermore, we find out that multipartitism might rise to fixation even in the absence of explicit microscopic advantages. Multipartitism allows the virus to colonize environments that could not be invaded by the monopartite form, while homogeneous contacts between hosts facilitate its spread. We conjecture that these features might have led to an increase in the diversity and prevalence of multipartite viral forms concomitantly with the expansion of agricultural practices.
1	691	698 pathway	Chemical	CHEBI_34922

2|chunk|Viruses typically consist of some genetic material wrapped up in a single particle, the capsid. Multipartite viruses follow another lifestyle. Their genome is made up of several segments, each packed in independent particles. However, since the completion of the viral cycle requires the full genome, these particles need to coinfect each host. This imposes strong constraints on the minimum number of independently transmitted particles, making the rise and persistence of multipartitism an evolutionary puzzle. By using analytical and numerical tools, we study the ecological interaction between monopartite and multipartite forms, in terms of their ability to spread on, and take over, a host population. We reveal that this interaction can take various forms (competition, cooperation, commensality), depending on the underlying structure of contacts among hosts. We also find that, in some situations, multipartitism represents an effective adaptive strategy, allowing the virus to colonize environments in which the monopartite form cannot thrive. Finally, we uncover that contact structures typical of farmed plants favor multipartitism, suggesting a correlation between the intensification of agricultural practices and an increase in the diversity and prevalence of multipartite viral species.

3|chunk|Endemicity and prevalence of multipartite viruses PLOS Computational Biology | https://doi.org/10.

