0|chunk|Supplementary material: Waiting time to infectious disease emergence Sensitivity of the analytic model

1|chunk|This section further develops the analytic results regarding the distribution of the delay between R 0 exceeding 1 and a disease emerging that was introduced in the main text. As described in the main text, our analytic approach is to suppose that each imported infection initiates a chain of infections which may be modelled as a branching process. The delay time is considered to be the time before the initiation of a branching process that does not go extinct. This time is a random variable that may be modelled like the time to death in a survival analysis. In the main text, we derived a survival function for this time and equations for the mean and median delay time for particular levels of heterogeneity in the distribution of secondary cases. The approximation with the error plotted in figure S1 was instrumental in those calculations. Here, we study the sensitivity of the mean and median survival time to changes in model parameters. We use the same notation as in the main text.

2|chunk|Although we do not have an explicit equation for the median for all levels of heterogeneity, we can still obtain a detailed understanding of how it responds to changes in model parameters. That is, we can describe in some detail the behaviour of the elasticities of the quantiles. The elasticity e y,x of a function's output y with respect to a parameter x is defined as y x x y . In words, it is the relative change in the function's value with respect to a relative change in one of its parameters. To derive e q,a we first note from the definition of S and  that

3|chunk|Thus, e q,a = log(1  F )/[(q)q]. It is instructive to view that equation as, in light of the definitions given the main text, stating that e q,a is equal to minus the area under the hazard curve from 0 to q divided by the area of a rectangle with sides of length (q) and q. As a grows large, q grows small and the hazard function from 0 to q approaches a straight line. Therefore, as a  , e q,a  1/2, the area of a triangle divided by that of a rectangle. As a decreases, q grows large. The ratio of (q) to (q/x) for any positive x decreases. Stated differently, d dt (t) (tx) > 0. To prove this fact, note that the following statements are logically equivalent:
3	82	87 light	Chemical	CHEBI_30212

4|chunk|The function [(1 + bt) p  1](1 + bt) is convex and passes through the origin. Therefore, the line passing through the origin and the function's value at t lies below the function at tx. That proves inequality (S6).

