0|chunk|Development and evaluation of a novel high- throughput image-based fluorescent neutralization test for detection of Zika virus infection

1|chunk|Zika virus (ZIKV) is an emerging arbovirus belonging to the genus flavivirus that comprises other important public health viruses, such as dengue (DENV) and yellow fever (YFV). In general, ZIKV infection is a self-limiting disease, however cases of Guillain-Barr syndrome and congenital brain abnormalities in newborn infants have been reported. Diagnosing ZIKV infection remains a challenge, as viral RNA detection is only applicable until a few days after the onset of symptoms. After that, serological tests must be applied, and, as expected, high cross-reactivity between ZIKV and other flavivirus serology is observed. Plaque reduction neutralization test (PRNT) is indicated to confirm positive samples for being more specific, however it is laborious intensive and time consuming, representing a major bottleneck for patient diagnosis. To overcome this limitation, we developed a high-throughput imagebased fluorescent neutralization test for ZIKV infection by serological detection. Using 226 human specimens, we showed that the new test presented higher throughput than traditional PRNT, maintaining the correlation between results. Furthermore, when tested with dengue virus samples, it showed 50.53% less cross reactivity than MAC-ELISA. This fluorescent neutralization test could be used for clinical diagnosis confirmation of ZIKV infection, as well as for vaccine clinical trials and seroprevalence studies.
1	403	406 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697

2|chunk|Since 2015, DENV's cousin known as ZIKV has been in the spotlight. It caught researchers' attention because it rapidly spread worldwide and ZIKV infection has been associated with Guillain-Barr syndrome cases and congenital brain abnormalities in newborn infants. For being so closely related, differentiation between DENV or ZIKV infection is challenging. Among the assays used in viral serological diagnosis, the plaque-reduction neutralization test (PRNT) that was described in the 1950s seems to be more specific, although PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.Funding: CNDS received financial support from BNDES, Fundao Araucria (fellowships), CNPq and CAPES (all Brazilian Governmental agencies) for funding the research. Nevertheless, the funding for publication fees is very limited. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and longstanding, very laborious and not capable to test large number of samples. Therefore, we developed an image based neutralization test for ZIKV that overcomes restrictions presented by PRNT. This new test is faster, robust and able to test many samples simultaneously. It was successful in distinguish ZIKV infection from other infections, such as dengue and yellow fever. This may be especially relevant to solve cases such as congenital disorders in newborns and also to elucidate the agents involved in neuropathological outcomes such as Guillain-Barr syndrome. It also can be useful in serological surveys and vaccine studies.
2	824	828 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906

3|chunk|High-throughput image-based neutralization test for Zika virus serological diagnosis PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.org/10.

