0|chunk|Genome organization of Canada Goose Coronavirus, A Novel species Identified in a Mass Die-off of Canada Geese

1|chunk|the complete genome of a novel coronavirus was sequenced directly from the cloacal swab of a Canada goose that perished in a die-off of Canada and Snow geese in Cambridge Bay, Nunavut, Canada.

2|chunk|Coronaviridae. Additional features that distinguish the genome of Canada goose coronavirus include 6 novel ORFs, a partial duplication of the 4 gene and a presumptive change in the proteolytic processing of polyproteins 1a and 1ab.

3|chunk|Viruses belonging to the Coronaviridae family have a single stranded positive sense RNA genome of 26-31 kb. Members of this family include both human pathogens, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome virus (SARS-CoV) 1 , and animal pathogens, such as porcine epidemic diarrhea virus 2 . Currently, the International Committee on the Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) recognizes four genera in the Coronaviridae family: Alphacoronavirus, Betacoronavirus, Gammacoronavirus and Deltacoronavirus. While the reservoirs of the Alphacoronavirus and Betacoronavirus genera are believed to be bats, the Gammacoronavirus and Deltacoronavirus genera have been shown to spread primarily through birds 3 . The first three species of the Deltacoronavirus genus were discovered in 2009 4 and recent work has vastly expanded the Deltacoronavirus genus, adding seven additional species 3 .
3	84	87 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697

4|chunk|By contrast relatively few species within the Gammacoronavirus genus have been identified. There are currently two recognized species in the Gammacoronavirus genus: avian coronavirus (ACoV) and beluga whale coronavirus SW1 (SW1). ACoVs infect multiple avian hosts and include several important poultry pathogens, such as infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) and turkey coronavirus (TCoV) 5 . IBV was first described in the United States 6 but has since been described around the globe 7 . Turkey Coronavirus is the cause of acute enteritis in domestic turkeys 8 . The second species in the Gammacornavirus genus SW1 was first discovered in beluga whales 9 but has since been detected in other cetaceans, such as Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins 10 . Despite IBV being the first discovered coronavirus and the impact it has on the poultry industry 11 , the number of identified species within the Gammacoronavirus genus remains small in comparison to the other coronavirus genera. Coronaviruses from several other avian hosts for which partial sequences are available suggest relatedness to IBV and TCoV. These viruses, which include goose coronavirus (GCoV), were tentatively classified as part of the ACoV species. An approximately 3 kb region, including the nucleocapsid gene and several accessory genes, of GCoV were previously sequenced from a greylag goose in Norway 12 .

5|chunk|Here we present the full genome of Canada goose coronavirus (CGCoV) sequenced directly from the cloacal swab of a Canada goose, which expired in a mass die-off in a remote region near the arctic in Nunavut, Canada. Our analyses demonstrate that it should be classified as a novel species in the Gammacoronavirus genus. used to generate amplicon for Sanger sequencing were: 1 cycle: 95 C for 3 minutes, 40 cycles: 98 C for 20 seconds, 65 C for 15 seconds, 72 C for 2.5 minutes, and 1 cycle: 72 C for 3 minutes. Amplicons were cleaned using AMPure XP beads (Beckman Coulter) according to the manufacturer's directions. Sanger sequencing was performed on the ABI Genetic Analyzer 3130XL platform using the BigDye Terminator v3.1 Cycle Sequencing Kit (Applied Biosystems) according to the user manual.

6|chunk|Bioinformatics. Read quality was assessed using FastQC and trimmed using Trimmamatic 27 (Version 0.36).

7|chunk|Host reads were then filtered with RAMBO-K, using the only complete genome of a goose species (Anser cygnoides) currently available and DCoV 28 . The near complete genome sequence of CGCoV was assembled from NGS derived sequences from a cloacal swab of one Canada goose using SPAdes 29 . Sanger reads were aligned to the draft genome in Geneious TM (Biomatters, v 9.1.8). Annotations were performed using Geneious and protein domains were identified using PFAM 30 . The Canada goose coronavirus genome is available under accession number MK359255 on NCBI.
7	418	425 protein	Chemical	CHEBI_16541

