0|chunk|Genetic diversity, infection prevalence, and possible transmission routes of Bartonella spp. in vampire bats

1|chunk|Bartonella spp. are globally distributed bacteria that cause endocarditis in humans and domestic animals. Recent work has suggested bats as zoonotic reservoirs of some human Bartonella infections; however, the ecological and spatiotemporal patterns of infection in bats remain largely unknown. Here we studied the genetic diversity, prevalence of infection across seasons and years, individual risk factors, and possible transmission routes of Bartonella in populations of common vampire bats (Desmodus rotundus) in Peru and Belize, for which high infection prevalence has previously been reported. Phylogenetic analysis of the gltA gene for a subset of PCR-positive blood samples revealed sequences that were related to Bartonella described from vampire bats from Mexico, other Neotropical bat species, and streblid bat flies. Sequences associated with vampire bats clustered significantly by country but commonly spanned Central and South America, implying limited spatial structure. Stable and nonzero Bartonella prevalence between years supported endemic transmission in all sites. The odds of Bartonella infection for individual bats was unrelated to the intensity of bat flies ectoparasitism, but nearly all infected bats were infested, which precluded conclusive assessment of support for vector-borne transmission. While metagenomic sequencing found no strong evidence of Bartonella DNA in pooled bat saliva and fecal samples, we detected PCR positivity in individual saliva and feces, suggesting the potential for bacterial transmission through both direct contact (i.e., biting) and environmental (i.e., fecal) exposures. Further investigating the relative contributions of direct contact, environmental, and vector-borne transmission for bat Bartonella is an important next step to predict infection dynamics within bats and the risks of human and livestock exposures.
1	1391	1394 DNA	Chemical	CHEBI_16991

2|chunk|PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.

3|chunk|Bartonella are globally distributed bacteria that can cause endocarditis in humans and domestic animals. Bats have been implicated as a likely reservoir host for these bacteria, but little is known about how prevalence varies over time, routes of transmission, and the genetic diversity of Bartonella in bats. We present results from a two-year, spatially replicated study of common vampire bats, which have previously shown high infection prevalence of Bartonella and could pose risks of cross-species transmission due to their diet of mammal blood. We found that vampire bat Bartonella is genetically diverse, geographically widespread and endemic, and that individual-level infection risk is highest for large, male, non-reproductive bats. Phylogenetic analysis supported vector-borne transmission, and we found support for potential transmission through direct contact and fecal exposures through PCR. Confirming whether arthropod vectors are the main route of transmission for bat Bartonella is needed for understanding infection dynamics in bats and for predicting risks of cross-species transmission to humans and livestock.

4|chunk|Bartonella in vampire bats PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.

