0|chunk|Development and evaluation of a rapid molecular diagnostic test for Zika virus infection by reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification OPEN

1|chunk|Here, we developed a reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay using a portable device for the detection of ZIKV. The assay specifically detected ZIKV strains of both Asian and African genotypes without crossreactivity with other arboviruses, including Dengue and Chikungunya viruses. The assay detected viral RNA at 14.5 TCID 50 /mL in virus-spiked serum or urine samples within 15 min, although it was slightly less sensitive than reference real time RT-PCR assay. We then evaluated the utility of this assay as a molecular diagnostic test using 90 plasma or serum samples and 99 urine samples collected from 120 suspected cases of arbovirus infection in the states of Paraba and Pernambuco, Brazil in 2016. The results of this assay were consistent with those of the reference RT-PCR test. This portable RT-LAMP assay was highly specific for ZIKV, and enable rapid diagnosis of the virus infection. Our results provide new insights into ZIKV molecular diagnostics and may improve preparedness for future outbreaks.
1	345	348 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697

2|chunk|Zika virus (ZIKV) was first identified in Uganda in 1947. Since then, human infections were found across Africa and Southeast Asia 1,2 . In May 2015, the first case of infection with ZIKV on the South American continent was reported in Brazil 2,3 . By early 2016, the number of ZIKV infections in Brazil increased dramatically, and an unusual number of cases of foetal and newborn microcephaly associated with ZIKV infection in pregnant women were reported 4,5 . To control ZIKV disease outbreaks and the spread of ZIKV infections, the World Health Organization declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern in February 2016. ZIKV infections have also been reported in other American countries and continue to expand.

3|chunk|A particular concern with respect to ZIKV infection is the increased risk of congenital central nerve system malformations, including microcephaly as well as arthrogryposis and spontaneous abortion caused by maternal infection during the first or second trimester of pregnancy 6,7 . In addition, sexual transmission and the probable transmission through blood transfusions have been reported [8] [9] [10] . ZIKV infection usually causes a mild and self-limiting illness, e.g., fever, rash, arthralgia, and conjunctivitis. Since these clinical symptoms are commonly observed in infections with other arboviruses, such as Dengue (DENV) and Chikungunya (CHIKV) viruses, it is difficult to diagnose ZIKV infection by clinical symptoms alone 1,2 . Therefore, accurate laboratory diagnosis to identify ZIKV infections is urgently required, especially for pregnant women who are at risk of bearing children with microcephaly. Published: xx xx xxxx OPEN www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 2 Scientific RepoRTS | 7: 13503 |

