0|chunk|Illuminating pathogen-host intimacy through optogenetics

1|chunk|The birth and subsequent evolution of optogenetics has resulted in an unprecedented advancement in our understanding of the brain. Its outstanding success does usher wider applications; however, the tool remains still largely relegated to neuroscience. Here, we introduce selected aspects of optogenetics with potential applications in infection biology that will not only answer long-standing questions about intracellular pathogens (parasites, bacteria, viruses) but also broaden the dimension of current research in entwined models. In this essay, we illustrate how a judicious integration of optogenetics with routine methods can illuminate the host-pathogen interactions in a way that has not been feasible otherwise.

2|chunk|Infectious diseases are a product of the complex interplay between a particular host and pathogen. In the case of intracellular pathogens, another layer of intricacy is added. The use of chemicals to control or monitor cellular pathways within pathogens or within sheltering host cells has an inadvertent effect on the other entity, which often complicates the data interpretation. Optogenetics holds the promise to resolve this enduring concern by expressing light-sensitive proteins to examine a pathway of interest in intertwined models. The method combines accuracy, efficiency, and speed with extremely high spatial and temporal resolution in altering or measuring the activity of a target pathway [1, 2] . It offers other advantages as well when controlling cellular signals for studying infection processes: (a) a reversible and conditional switching; (b) circumvention of difficulties often faced with chemicals, i.e., poor diffusion, premature degradation, constant activation, and pleiotropic effects; (c) gene-encoded expression, thus inheritable to the progeny and uniform response in a clonal population. Not everything about this method is shining, though. Just as with any technology, there are credible issues varying from model to model. These include the general toxicity of light-responsive proteins, basal (dark) activity in regular cultures, and sensitivity of some organisms to a particular spectrum or intensity of light. The making of optogenetically modified cells (via plasmid transfection or viral vectors) expressing certain tools may cause a perturbation in cell behavior, but it can be minimized by standard optimization (i.e., promoter strength, tool screening, dark culture, inclusion of proper controls)
2	476	484 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
2	498	505 pathway	Chemical	CHEBI_34922
2	695	702 pathway	Chemical	CHEBI_34922
2	1310	1318 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
2	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_36080	CHEBI_34922

