0|chunk|Host genetic background influences diverse neurological responses to viral infection in mice OPEN

1|chunk|To extend knowledge on the heterogeneous neurological outcomes caused by TMEV and identify new models of human neurological diseases associated with antecedent infections, we analyzed the phenotypic consequences of TMEV infection in the Collaborative Cross (CC) mouse population. We evaluated 5 different CC strains for outcomes of long-term infection (3 months) and acute vs. early chronic infection (7 vs. 28 days post-infection), using neurological and behavioral phenotyping tests and histology. We correlated phenotypic observations with haplotypes of genomic regions previously linked to TMEV susceptibility to test the hypothesis that genomic diversity within CC mice results in variable disease phenotypes in response to TMEV. None of the 5 strains analyzed had a response identical to that of any other CC strain or inbred strain for which prior data are available, indicating that strains of the CC can produce novel models of neurological disease. Thus, CC strains can be a powerful resource for studying how viral infection can cause different neurological outcomes depending on host genetic background.

2|chunk|Viral infections may precede the onset of several neurological conditions, including epilepsy, Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) 1-14 . For each of these diseases, a viral infection in childhood or young adulthood is thought to initiate a chain of immunological events that, along with other risk factors, result in a cumulative increased susceptibility to disease. The risk and clinical manifestations conferred by antecedent viral infection can vary greatly among individuals even when infected by the same virus. Experimental studies using mice have uncovered mechanisms of infection, but common inbred and transgenic strains of mice typically do not reflect the genetic diversity and phenotypic heterogeneity observed in human populations. Consequently, the mechanisms responsible for variable responses to viral infection in humans remain largely unknown.

3|chunk|Theiler's murine encephalomyelitis virus (TMEV) is a naturally occurring neurotropic picornavirus affecting mice 15 . TMEV produces complications, which vary by mouse strain, that closely approximate human neurological conditions associated with antecedent viral infections. Moderately virulent strains (BeAn and DA) of TMEV establish a persistent infection resulting in demyelinating disease similar to MS in susceptible mouse strains such as SJL 16,17 and, to a lesser extent, CBA 18 . In susceptible mouse strains, TMEV infection is biphasic. The early period of infection (first 4 weeks) is characterized as an acute inflammatory phase, eliciting a strong anti-TMEV antibody response 19 along with an anti-TMEV T-cell response to clear the viral infection 20 . The later period of TMEV disease (from approximately 7 weeks post infection) is characterized by widespread neurodegeneration and chronic neuroinflammation 21,22 . In the TMEV-resistant strain C57BL/6, TMEV infection causes epileptic seizures, but these mice clear the virus from the central nervous system (CNS) and do not develop chronic demyelination as seen in SJL mice 23, 24 . Depending on mouse strain, TMEV can infect motor neurons, resulting in lesions similar to ALS in humans 25 , or dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of CBA mice, similar to PD 26,27 . Since infection-associated neurological conditions in mice vary depending on genetic background, Published: xx xx xxxx OPEN www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 2 ScienTific REPORTS | 7: 12194 | TMEV infection can be used to model heterogeneous infection-associated human diseases to better understand the underlying genetic components.
3	479	482 CBA	Chemical	CHEBI_3796
3	1308	1311 CBA	Chemical	CHEBI_3796

4|chunk|Genetic and phenotypic variation underlying host response has been previously studied for influenza 28,29 , SARS-CoV 30 , Ebola 31 , and West Nile virus 32,33 using the Collaborative Cross (CC) mouse genetic reference population. The CC was designed to model genetic heterogeneity of humans 34,35 , where each CC strain can be considered as a unique individual and the panel as a population of humans. In this study the utility of the CC was evaluated for its ability to reveal the spectrum of neurological phenotypes caused by infection by TMEV, based on genetic background. Our findings confirmed that the genetic diversity present in CC strains contributes to phenotypically diverse neurological conditions resulting from TMEV infection.

