0|chunk|The effects of in ovo administration of encapsulated Toll-like receptor 21 ligand as an adjuvant with Marek's disease vaccine OPEN
0	75	81 ligand	Chemical	CHEBI_52214
0	88	96 adjuvant	Chemical	CHEBI_60809
0	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_52214	CHEBI_60809

1|chunk|is one of the most widely used MD vaccines in poultry industry. Vaccines can be adjuvanted with Tolllike receptor ligands (TLR-Ls) to enhance their efficacy. In this study, we examined whether combining TLR-Ls with HVT can boost host immunity against MD and improve its efficacy. Results demonstrated that HVT alone or HVT combined with encapsulated CpG-ODN partially protected chickens from tumor incidence and reduced virus replication compared to the control group. However, encapsulated CpG-ODN only moderately, but not significantly, improved HVT efficacy and reduced tumor incidence from 53% to 33%.
1	114	121 ligands	Chemical	CHEBI_52214

2|chunk|Marek's disease (MD) in chickens is caused by an alpha herpesvirus, Marek's Disease Virus (MDV), which is currently controlled in chicken farms by vaccination, selection of genetic lines resistant to MD and biosecurity measures. Depending on the host and virus virulence, MDV can cause more than 90% morbidity and mortality in susceptible chickens 1 . Chickens become infected by MDV following inhalation of infected dust via the respiratory route. MDV primarily infects macrophages, B and T cells and it mainly transforms CD4+ T cells although other T cell subtypes are susceptible to transformation 2,3 . Generally, MDV life cycle can be divided into the cytolytic phase (2-7 days post-infection -dpi), latent phase (7-10 dpi), late cytolytic phase, and transformation phase 2 . Lysis of lymphocytes and activation of TGF-beta + regulatory T cells are a few mechanisms among others which induce immunosuppression during MDV infection 4 . Furthermore, transformed T cells proliferate form lymphoma which can lead to immunosuppression and clinical and pathological signs of disease. In the course of infection, MDV replicates in feather follicular epithelium and sheds into the environment throughout the lifespan of an infected chicken.
2	49	54 alpha	Chemical	CHEBI_30216

3|chunk|Since MDV was first identified more than 50 years ago, several vaccines have been developed to control clinical signs of the disease, although none of them can fully prevent replication or transmission of MDV. Because of the inability of vaccines to control MDV transmission, it is believed that vaccines have prompted the emergence of virulent strains of MDV 5 . Herpesvirus of turkey (HVT) is one of the MD vaccines which is extensively used worldwide either alone or in combination with other MD vaccine 6 . HVT can be administered in ovo at embryonic Published: xx xx xxxx OPEN www.nature.com/scientificreports/

