0|chunk|Patterns of human social contact and contact with animals in Shanghai, China

1|chunk|We first sampled three central urban districts, then sampled a total of ten subdistricts within those three central urban districts, and from each of those ten subdistricts we sampled four neighborhoods (the smallest administrative unit in China, with a mean population of 3800 people per neighborhood sampled), using multi-stage stratified probability proportional to population size (PPS). At the district level, three districts were sampled from the total seven central urban districts of Shanghai by PPS (Huangpu, Xuhui, and Changning). At the subdistrict level, ten subdistricts within those three central urban districts were sampled by PPS, where the number of subdistricts needed per district was determined by proportionate stratification (four from Xuhui, three from Huangpu, and three from Changning). At the household level, 25 households per neighborhood were selected with the help of neighborhood committee cadres. The selection of households was encouraged to be broadly representative of the population of the neighborhood in terms of geographical spread.

2|chunk|One person per household was invited to participate in our study until we met our predefined target sizes by age and gender (described below, table A). A pilot survey was conducted between December 2017 and January 2018, with two of the selected neighborhoods as study sites.
2	148	151 Aaa	Chemical	CHEBI_28515

3|chunk|Sample size allocation at each stage had to do with the sample size calculation, which was described below.

4|chunk|The sample size was calculated based on the key variable -"the number of daily contacts". We assumed that intra-class correlation among individuals only existed at neighborhood level, not at subdistrict and not even at district. Comparing our complex sample with an unrestricted sample design, we accounted for clustering at neighborhood level, by multiplying the effective sample size by the design effect.

5|chunk|Hence the sample size calculation was as follows:

