0|chunk|| INTRODUC TI ON Animal modeling in bone research-Should we follow the White Rabbit?

1|chunk|In the long history of mankind, animals have played significant roles.

2|chunk|We owe much of our intellectual sophistication and societal status to animal husbandry. 1 Farming and agriculture have allowed humans to control their environment and an improved nutrition. The first rural settlements marked the birth of the ancient civilizations, 2 but also triggered the first zoonotic outbreaks and the beginning of public health concerns. 3 The earliest records of animal use coincide with the appearance of Hippocrates' concepts and the birth of Western medicine. 2 Jumping ahead 2400 years, in the year 2018 more than 20 000 animal subjects-exceeding 200 species-were part of translational studies worldwide, 4 in pre-clinical trials. 2 Animal modelling can provide reliable data to elucidate human diseases. 5 Despite benefiting our quality of life, animal research remains controversial. 3 There is a growing sense of disapproval over using household pets in experiments. 1 New technologies have been created to replace animals in research, but the position of ideal bone substitute remains open. 6 Thus, primary research on novel models continues paramount. 7

3|chunk|Animal models are live subjects applied to translational research. They provide insights into human diseases and enhance biomedical knowledge. Livestock production has favored the pace of human social development over millennia. Today's society is more aware of animal welfare than past generations. The general public has marked objections to animal research and many species are falling into disuse. The search for an ideal methodology to replace animal use is on, but animal modeling still holds great importance to human health. Bone research, in particular, has unmet requirements that in vitro technologies cannot yet fully address. In that sense, standardizing novel models remains necessary and rabbits are gaining in popularity as potential bone models. Our aim here is to provide a broad overview of animal modeling and its ethical implications, followed by a narrower focus on bone research and the role rabbits are playing in the current scenario.
3	910	914 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906

4|chunk|animal experimentation, bone density, Lagomorpha, translational medical research MACEDO Et Al.

