0|chunk|When Viruses Don't Go Viral: The Importance of Host Phylogeographic Structure in the Spatial Spread of Arenaviruses

1|chunk|Many emerging infections are RNA virus spillovers from animal reservoirs. Reservoir identification is necessary for predicting the geographic extent of infection risk, but rarely are taxonomic levels below the animal species considered as reservoir, and only key circumstances in nature and methodology allow intrinsic virus-host associations to be distinguished from simple geographic (co-)isolation. We sampled and genetically characterized in detail a contact zone of two subtaxa of the rodent Mastomys natalensis in Tanzania. We find two distinct arenaviruses, Gairo and Morogoro virus, each spatially confined to a single M. natalensis subtaxon, only co-occurring at the contact zone's centre. Inter-subtaxon hybridization at this centre and a continuum of quality habitat for M. natalensis show that both viruses have the ecological opportunity to spread into the other substaxon's range, but do not, strongly suggesting host-intrinsic barriers. Such barriers could explain why human cases of another M. natalensis-borne arenavirus, Lassa virus, are limited to West Africa.
1	29	32 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697

2|chunk|Reservoirs of zoonotic viruses are usually equated with a particular wildlife species. It is rarely assessed whether genetic groups below the species level may instead represent the actual reservoir, though this would have major implications on estimations of the zoonosis' spatial distribution. Here we investigate whether geographically and genetically distinct subtaxa of the widespread African rodent Mastomys natalensis carry distinct arenaviruses, by sampling in detail across a contact zone of two of these subtaxa. Ongoing hybridization shows that individuals of the subtaxa are in direct physical contact, in principle allowing viral exchange, yet neither of the two arenaviruses -Gairo and Morogoro virus-were found to have crossed the zone. Such intraspecific genetic barriers to arenavirus spatial spread have important implications for our understanding of the related Lassa arenavirus, a pathogen potentially lethal to humans of which Mastomys natalensis is also the main reservoir. Although Lassa virus appears to infect several secondary hosts, its PLOS Pathogens | distribution is restricted to West Africa and matches that of another M. natalensis subtaxon. Our data thus indicates that it is because of M. natalensis intraspecific distinctions that the human Lassa fever endemic area has not expanded to the rest of sub-Saharan Africa.

3|chunk|Formal analysis: SG SJEB. Funding acquisition: RM HL JGdB. Investigation: SG SJEB BB JGdB. Methodology: SG SJEB JGdB. Resources: RM. Supervision: HL JGdB. Validation: SG SJEB BB HL JGdB. Visualization: SG. Writing -original draft: SG SJEB HL JGdB.
3	0	6 Formal	Chemical	CHEBI_48341

