0|chunk|Antibody-mediated enhancement aggravates chikungunya virus infection and disease severity

1|chunk|The arthropod-transmitted chikungunya virus (CHIKV) causes a flu-like disease that is characterized by incapacitating arthralgia. The re-emergence of CHIKV and the continual risk of new epidemics have reignited research in CHIKV pathogenesis. Virus-specific antibodies have been shown to control virus clearance, but antibodies present at sub-neutralizing concentrations can also augment virus infection that exacerbates disease severity. To explore this occurrence, CHIKV infection was investigated in the presence of CHIKV-specific antibodies in both primary human cells and a murine macrophage cell line, RAW264.7. Enhanced attachment of CHIKV to the primary human monocytes and B cells was observed while increased viral replication was detected in RAW264.7 cells. Blocking of specific Fc receptors (FcRs) led to the abrogation of these observations. Furthermore, experimental infection in adult mice showed that animals had higher viral RNA loads and endured more severe joint inflammation in the presence of sub-neutralizing concentrations of CHIKV-specific antibodies. In addition, CHIKV infection in 11 days old mice under enhancing condition resulted in higher muscles viral RNA load detected and death. These observations provide the first evidence of antibody-mediated enhancement in CHIKV infection and pathogenesis and could also be relevant for other important arboviruses such as Zika virus.
1	943	946 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697
1	1185	1188 RNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33697

2|chunk|Chikungunya virus (CHIKV) is a member of the Alphavirus genus of the Togaviridae family 1,2 . It is responsible for chikungunya fever (CHIKF), a disease characterized by the presence of incapacitating arthralgia 3 . CHIKV is transmitted by arthropod vectors, such as the Aedes aegypti and Aedes albopictus mosquitoes, with the latter being implicated in the transmission of CHIKV during the 2005-2006 Indian Ocean outbreak and in Europe 4 . For the past decade, re-emergence of CHIKV has led to numerous outbreaks in different parts of the world: Asia 5-12 , Europe 4,13,14 and islands in the Indian Ocean 15,16 . Outbreaks of CHIKV infections have also been reported in the Caribbean islands 17,18 and CHIKV has since successfully invaded North, Central and South America 19 .

3|chunk|Enhancement of arbovirus infections via antibodies was first demonstrated in 1964 20 . This is a paradoxical phenomenon of antibodies forming complexes by binding to viruses, which then interact with cell surface receptors and promote entry into susceptible host cells, subsequently increasing virus replication 21,22 . This was observed for rabies virus 23 , influenza virus 24 , dengue virus (DENV) 25,26 , Ross River virus (RRV) 27 , human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 28 and Marburg virus 29 . Among alphaviruses, although virus enhancement was documented only in RRV infections 27,30-32 , most of these studies were conducted using in vitro murine cell line-based

