0|chunk|A Neuron-Specific Antiviral Mechanism Prevents Lethal Flaviviral Infection of Mosquitoes
0	18	27 Antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587

1|chunk|Mosquitoes are natural vectors for many etiologic agents of human viral diseases. Mosquito-borne flaviviruses can persistently infect the mosquito central nervous system without causing dramatic pathology or influencing the mosquito behavior and lifespan. The mechanism by which the mosquito nervous system resists flaviviral infection is still largely unknown. Here we report that an Aedes aegypti homologue of the neural factor Hikaru genki (AaHig) efficiently restricts flavivirus infection of the central nervous system. AaHig was predominantly expressed in the mosquito nervous system and localized to the plasma membrane of neural cells. Functional blockade of AaHig enhanced Dengue virus (DENV) and Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), but not Sindbis virus (SINV), replication in mosquito heads and consequently caused neural apoptosis and a dramatic reduction in the mosquito lifespan. Consistently, delivery of recombinant AaHig to mosquitoes reduced viral infection. Furthermore, the membrane-localized AaHig directly interfaced with a highly conserved motif in the surface envelope proteins of DENV and JEV, and consequently interrupted endocytic viral entry into mosquito cells. Loss of either plasma membrane targeting or virion-binding ability rendered AaHig nonfunctional. Interestingly, Culex pipien pallens Hig also demonstrated a prominent anti-flavivirus activity, suggesting a functionally conserved function for Hig. Our results demonstrate that an evolutionarily conserved antiviral mechanism prevents lethal flaviviral infection of the central nervous system in mosquitoes, and thus may facilitate flaviviral transmission in nature.
1	1092	1100 proteins	Chemical	CHEBI_36080
1	1494	1503 antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587
1	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_36080	CHEBI_22587

2|chunk|The central nervous system plays a predominant role in organisms associated with cognition and higher-order functions, which is key to their normal behavior and successful survival. Many mosquito-borne flaviviruses particularly invade the central nervous system in vertebrates, resulting in dramatic neural degeneration and damage. As natural vectors, mosquitoes are highly permissive to flaviviral infection that can be persistent in the mosquito nervous system. However, the infection intriguingly does neither lead to significant malignant pathological sequelae, nor dramatically influences mosquito behavior or lifespan, and thus mosquitoes can transmit viruses efficiently. Little is known about the neuron-specific resistant mechanism in viral infection of mosquitoes. Here we report that a neuron-specific factor specifically controls flaviviral replication in the mosquito nervous system by interfering with viral entry, and its activity prevents lethal flaviviral infection of mosquitoes. Our study provides insight into the sophisticated interactions between mosquito-borne viruses and their vectors, and offers an important target for arboviral limitation in nature.
2	47	51 role	Chemical	CHEBI_50906

