0|chunk|A Four-Biomarker Blood Signature Discriminates Systemic Inflammation Due to Viral Infection Versus Other Etiologies

1|chunk|expression signature in whole blood, indicative of a general host systemic response to many types of viral infection. The signature's genes are: Interferon Stimulated Gene 15 (ISG15), Interleukin 16 (IL16), 2,5-Oligoadenylate Synthetase Like (OASL), and Adhesion G Protein Coupled Receptor E5 (ADGRE5). In each of 13 validation datasets encompassing human, macaque, chimpanzee, pig, mouse, rat and all seven Baltimore virus classification groups, the signature provides statistically significant (p < 0.05) discrimination between viral and non-viral conditions. The signature may have clinical utility for differentiating host systemic inflammation (SI) due to viral versus bacterial or non-infectious causes.
1	145	155 Interferon	Chemical	CHEBI_52999
1	267	274 Protein	Chemical	CHEBI_16541
1	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_52999	CHEBI_16541

2|chunk|Systemic inflammation (SI), as indicated by clinical signs such as fever and increased respiratory and heart rates, can be due to a variety of underlying non-infectious or infectious causes including trauma, thermal burns, surgery, ischemia-reperfusion events and viral or bacterial infections. Patients presenting with SI can pose a diagnostic challenge for clinicians in determining the underlying etiology; consequently it can be difficult to select the most appropriate options for treatment and patient management 1-5 . There is a clinical need for rapid diagnostic tests that can help clinicians distinguish between non-infectious, viral and bacterial etiologies of SI in (critically ill) patients. Without such tests, patients may be over-prescribed antibiotics when there is little clinical evidence of infection 4, 6 . Reducing inappropriate and unnecessary use of antibiotics, the concept of antibiotic stewardship, is essential in slowing the spread of resistant bacteria 7 .
2	757	768 antibiotics	Chemical	CHEBI_33281
2	874	885 antibiotics	Chemical	CHEBI_33281
2	902	912 antibiotic	Chemical	CHEBI_33281

3|chunk|Traditional reference methods for determining bacterial or viral causes of SI involve the culture, isolation and identification of causative pathogens from multiple specimens from a patient. Such an approach, however, has several limitations: (i) the causative pathogen might not be present in the specimens taken for examination; (ii) the specimens may become contaminated by organisms unrelated to the cause of infection; (iii) multiple organisms may be present in the specimens (e.g. due to contamination or non-harmful microbiota) and it can be difficult to determine which organism is the cause of the presenting clinical signs 8-10 . Furthermore, (iv) some sampling techniques (e.g. bronchoalveolar lavage, lumbar puncture) are relatively invasive. Finally, (v) some pathogens are not easily cultured. Although traditional culture-based methods are steadily being supplemented or

