0|chunk|Tonsillar cytokine expression between patients with tonsillar hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis

1|chunk|Background: Tonsils provide an innovative in vivo model for investigating immune response to infections and allergens. However, data are scarce on the differences in tonsillar virus infections and immune responses between patients with tonsillar hypertrophy or recurrent tonsillitis. We investigated the differences in virus detection and T cell and interferon gene expression in patients undergoing tonsillectomy due to tonsillar hypertrophy or recurrent tonsillitis.
1	350	360 interferon	Chemical	CHEBI_52999

2|chunk|Methods: Tonsils of 89 surgical patients with tonsillar hypertrophy (n = 47) or recurrent tonsillitis (n = 42) were analysed. Patients were carefully characterized clinically. Standard questionnaire was used to asses preceding and allergy symptoms. Respiratory viruses were analysed in tonsils and nasopharynx by PCR. Quantitative real-time PCR was used to analyse intratonsillar gene expressions of IFN-, IFN-, IFN-, IL-10, IL-13, IL-17, IL-28, IL-29, IL-37, TGF-, FOXP3, GATA3, RORC2 and Tbet.

3|chunk|Results: Median age of the subjects was 15 years (range 2-60). Patients with tonsillar hypertrophy were younger, smoked less often, had less pollen allergy and had more adenovirus, bocavirus-1, coronavirus and rhinovirus in nasopharynx (all P < 0.05). Only bocavirus-1 was more often detected in hypertrophic tonsils (P < 0.05). In age-adjusted analysis, tonsillar hypertrophy was associated with higher mRNA expressions of IL-37 (P < 0.05).
3	404	408 mRNA	Chemical	CHEBI_33699

4|chunk|Conclusions: Intratonsillar T cell and interferon gene expressions appeared to be relatively stable for both tonsillar hypertrophy and recurrent tonsillitis. Of the studied cytokines, only newly discovered anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-37, was independently associated with tonsillar hypertrophy showing slightly stronger anti-inflammatory response in these patients. which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The Creative Commons Public Domain Dedication waiver (http://creat iveco mmons .org/ publi cdoma in/zero/1.0/) applies to the data made available in this article, unless otherwise stated. samples and clinical data were collected by TP, MS and LI.
4	39	49 interferon	Chemical	CHEBI_52999

