0|chunk|A specific sequence in the genome of respiratory syncytial virus regulates the generation of copy-back defective viral genomes

1|chunk|Defective viral genomes of the copy-back type (cbDVGs) are the primary initiators of the antiviral immune response during infection with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) both in vitro and in vivo. However, the mechanism governing cbDVG generation remains unknown, thereby limiting our ability to manipulate cbDVG content in order to modulate the host response to infection. Here we report a specific genomic signal that mediates the generation of a subset of RSV cbDVG species. Using a customized bioinformatics tool, we identified regions in the RSV genome frequently used to generate cbDVGs during infection. We then created a minigenome system to validate the function of one of these sequences and to determine if specific nucleotides were essential for cbDVG generation at that position. Further, we created a recombinant virus unable to produce a subset of cbDVGs due to mutations introduced in this sequence. The identified sequence was also found as a site for cbDVG generation during natural RSV infections, and common cbDVGs originated at this sequence were found among samples from various infected patients. These data demonstrate that sequences encoded in the viral genome determine the location of cbDVG formation and, therefore, the generation of cbDVGs is not a stochastic process. These findings open the possibility of genetically manipulating cbDVG formation to modulate infection outcome.
1	89	98 antiviral	Chemical	CHEBI_22587
1	728	739 nucleotides	Chemical	CHEBI_36976
1	CHEBI-CHEBI	CHEBI_22587	CHEBI_36976

2|chunk|Copy-back defective viral genomes (cbDVGs) regulate infection and pathogenesis of Mononegavirales. cbDVGs are believed to arise from random errors that occur during virus replication and the predominant hypothesis is that the viral polymerase is the main driver of cbDVG generation. Here we describe a specific genomic sequence in the RSV PLOS Pathogens | https://doi.genome that is necessary for the generation of a large proportion of the cbDVG population present during infection. We identified specific nucleotides that when modified altered cbDVG generation at this position, and we created a recombinant virus that selectively produced cbDVGs based on mutations in this sequence. These data demonstrate that the generation of RSV cbDVGs is regulated by specific viral sequences and that these sequences can be manipulated to alter the population of cbDVGs generated during infection.
2	507	518 nucleotides	Chemical	CHEBI_36976

3|chunk|Sequences in the RSV genome determine cbDVG generation PLOS Pathogens | https://doi.

