0|chunk|A generalized approach to predicting protein-protein interactions between virus and host
0	2	13 generalized	Phenotype	HP_0012837

1|chunk|Background: Viral infection involves a large number of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) between virus and its host. These interactions range from the initial binding of viral coat proteins to host membrane receptor to the hijacking the host transcription machinery by viral proteins. Therefore, identifying PPIs between virus and its host helps understand the mechanism of viral infections and design antiviral drugs. Many computational methods have been developed to predict PPIs, but most of them are intended for PPIs within a species rather than PPIs across different species such as PPIs between virus and host. Results: In this study, we developed a prediction model of virus-host PPIs, which is applicable to new viruses and hosts. We tested the prediction model on independent datasets of virus-host PPIs, which were not used in training the model. Despite a low sequence similarity between proteins in training datasets and target proteins in test datasets, the prediction model showed a high performance comparable to the best performance of other methods for single virus-host PPIs. Conclusions: Our method will be particularly useful to find PPIs between host and new viruses for which little information is available. The program and support data are available at http://bclab.inha.ac.kr/VirusHostPPI. to the hijacking the host transcription machinery by viral proteins. Therefore, identifying PPIs between virus and its host helps understand the mechanism of viral infections and design antiviral drugs.
1	12	27 Viral infection	Gene_function	GO_0016032
1	161	168 binding	Gene_function	GO_0005488
1	200	208 membrane	Gene_function	GO_0016020

2|chunk|Many computational methods have been developed to predict PPIs, but most of them are intended for PPIs within a same species rather than for PPIs across different species. Methods for predicting intra-species PPIs do not distinguish interactions between proteins of the same species from those of different species, and thus are not appropriate for predicting inter-species PPIs. Motivated by a recent increase in data of virus-host PPIs, a few computational methods have been developed to predict virushost PPIs using machine learning methods. For instance, a homology-based method [3] and domain-based method [4] were proposed to predict PPIs between H. sapiens and M. tuberculosis H37Rv. Cui et al. [5] developed a support
2	527	535 learning	Gene_function	GO_0007612

