0|chunk|Supplementary Material for: Avoidable errors in the modeling of outbreaks of emerging pathogens, with special reference to Ebola Appendix A. Simulation study

1|chunk|To demonstrate the differences between fitting to raw incidence vs. cumulative incidence data, we performed a simulation study in which we fit the deterministic model variant to both types of data at three different levels of observation overdispersion: k  {0, 0.2, 0.5}. For each overdispersion treatment, 500 simulated 39-week time series were generated from the stochastic model variant. The basic reproduction number was set to R 0 = 1.4; the incubation and infectious periods were fixed as in Table B1 ; the assumed population size was taken to be that of the Republic of Guinea. We assumed a reporting probability of  = 0.2 and that, at outbreak initiation, 10 individuals were infected. This set of parameter values yields a sample mean simulation visually comparable to the WHO data from Guinea, which display initally slow growth in the number of cases and later acceleration.
1	402	414 reproduction	Gene_function	GO_0000003
1	834	840 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007

2|chunk|For each simulated data set, we estimated the basic reproduction number, R 0 , the reporting probability, , and the negative binomial overdispersion parameter, k. All other model parameters were fixed at their true values. Parameter estimation was accomplished using the trajectory matching algorithm (traj.match) from the R package pomp (King et al., 2010). We constructed likelihood profiles over R 0 and, from these, obtained maximum likelihood point estimates and likelihood-ratio confidence intervals. The full process of obtaining likelihood profiles on model parameters by trajectory matching took approximately 1.2 hr on a 40-cpu cluster.
2	52	64 reproduction	Gene_function	GO_0000003

3|chunk|A second simulation study was performed, in which the deterministic variant of the model was fit to cumulative incidence data by ordinary least squares. This common procedure in effect assumes that measurement errors are independent and identically normally distributed. Results of this exercise are shown in Fig. A2 in a form comparable to that of Fig. 1 . As in the results shown in the main text, confidence interval widths are erroneously under-estimated with the result that achieved coverage is far smaller than its nominal value.

4|chunk|1 Figure A1 : Twelve randomly-selected simulated datasets from the 1500 used in the simulation study. Four simulations are shown for each of three values of the negative binomial overdispersion parameter, k.

5|chunk|2 Figure A2 : Results from simulation study fitting the deterministic model to cumulative incidence data using the method of least squares. The model was fit to both raw (blue) and accumulated (red) simulated incidence data. The same 1500 simulated data sets of length 39 wk used in Fig. 1 were used here. (A) Estimates of R 0 . True value used in generating the data is shown by the dashed line. (B) Estimates of reporting probability, . The dashed line shows the value used to generate the data. (C) Widths of nominal 99% profile likelihood confidence intervals (CI) for R 0 . (D) Actual coverage of the CI, i.e., probability that the true value of R 0 lay within the CI. Ideally, actual coverage would agree with nominal coverage (99%, dashed line). 3

6|chunk|Model parameters were initially estimated using trajectory matching. As in the simulation study, we initially fitted R 0 , , k and the initial conditions. However, profile likelihoods over  were flat, indicating a lack of identifiability in the reporting rate due to a trade-off between this parameter and initial conditions. Accordingly, we fixed  = 0.2. The flatness of the likelihood profiles indicates that this assumption has no effect on the quality of fit. All other model parameters were fixed at the known values given in Table B1 .

7|chunk|Trajectory matching was used to compute likelihood profiles over R 0 and k. For each point in the profile, the other parameters and initial conditions were initialized at 40 points according to a latin hypersquare (Sobol') design. In all, the trajectory matching calculations required approximately 21 cpu hr of computation. Full details of the trajectory matching codes are provided in the Supplementary Material. Table B1 : Model parameters, with their interpretations, and their assumed values (parameters estimated from incidence data are so indicated) together with the source of evidence for the assumption.

