0|chunk|Molecular Sciences Viral Metagenomics on Blood-Feeding Arthropods as a Tool for Human Disease Surveillance

1|chunk|Surveillance and monitoring of viral pathogens circulating in humans and wildlife, together with the identification of emerging infectious diseases (EIDs), are critical for the prediction of future disease outbreaks and epidemics at an early stage. It is advisable to sample a broad range of vertebrates and invertebrates at different temporospatial levels on a regular basis to detect possible candidate viruses at their natural source. However, virus surveillance systems can be expensive, costly in terms of finances and resources and inadequate for sampling sufficient numbers of different host species over space and time. Recent publications have presented the concept of a new virus surveillance system, coining the terms "flying biological syringes", "xenosurveillance" and "vector-enabled metagenomics". According to these novel and promising surveillance approaches, viral metagenomics on engorged mosquitoes might reflect the viral diversity of numerous mammals, birds and humans, combined in the mosquitoes' blood meal during feeding on the host. In this review article, we summarize the literature on vector-enabled metagenomics (VEM) techniques and its application in disease surveillance in humans. Furthermore, we highlight the combination of VEM and "invertebrate-derived DNA" (iDNA) analysis to identify the host DNA within the mosquito midgut.

2|chunk|viruses with zoonotic potential, e.g., bats, rodents, birds and primates, are sampled frequently [6, 7] . However, collecting swabs or blood from sufficient numbers of wildlife individuals and the subsequent identification of viruses is challenging. The solution for overcoming this challenge might be presented by the disease vector itself. Blood feeding arthropods feed on blood from a wide range of hosts including humans, mammals and birds [8] . Therefore, they act as "syringes", sampling numerous vertebrates and collecting the viral diversity over space, time and species. Xenosurveillance and vector-enabled metagenomics (VEM) are surveillance approaches that can exploit mosquitoes to capture the viral diversity of the animal, human or plant host the mosquito has fed on ( Figure 1) . Xenosurveillance, a term introduced by Brackney et al., refers to the identification of viral pathogens from total nucleic acids extracted from mosquito blood meals, either by next-generation sequencing (NGS) or conventional PCR assays [9] . Recent developments in NGS and viral metagenomics, which is the shotgun sequencing of viral nucleic acids extracted from purified virus particles, offer great opportunities for the characterization of the complete viral diversity in an organism or a population [10] . VEM, a technique used to sequence purified viral nucleic acids directly from insect vectors, has already been used to detect both animal and plant viruses circulating in vectors [11, 12] . This review summarizes findings from xenosurveillance efforts as well as VEM studies using mosquitoes, since both approaches combine sampling of multiple individuals of blood-feeding arthropods with the high-throughput properties of NGS.

