0|chunk|Complete Genomic and Ultrastructural Analysis of a Nam Dinh Virus Isolated from Culex pipiens quinquefasciatus in China* OPEN

1|chunk|The Nam Dinh virus (NDiV) was isolated from Culex quinquefasciatus in Shenzhen, China, for the first time, in 2011. In this study, we characterized the ultrastructure of NDiV, determined its complete genome sequence and made comparisons with other known nidoviruses. Electron microscopic observation revealed that the NDiV strain isolated in China produced viral nucleocapsid-like particles and vesicles in host cells. The extracellular virions were enveloped and were spherical with short spikes. The complete genome sequence of the newly isolated NDiV was submitted to the GenBank database (GenBank accession number KF522691). Sequencing of the viral genome showed that the homologies of NDiV isolated in China and Vietnam were greater than 94.0% and 89.0% at the nucleotide and amino acid sequence levels, respectively. Moreover, gene substitution was detected, whereas insertions and deletions were not. A phylogenetic tree analysis showed that these viruses belong to the genus Alphamesonivirus1 of the family Mesoniviridae. The similarity between the two viruses regarding morphological and molecular biological characteristics indicates that the molecular genetics of NDiV are conservative and that the regional differences are unlikely to have a significant effect. This is the first report of the isolation and complete sequencing of a mesonivirus in mainland China.
1	423	436 extracellular	Gene_function	GO_0005576

2|chunk|A virus thought to be the first known insect-borne nidovirus was discovered during surveillance for Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) in mosquitoes from Vietnam 1 . The Nam Dinh virus (NDiV) was identified in mosquitoes, and no evidence of vertebrate infection by this virus has been detected. NDiV was found to be a positive-sense, single-stranded RNA ([+]ssRNA) virus. The 20,192 nucleotide (nt)-long genome contains two major open reading frames (ORFs), ORF1a and ORF1b, which encode two proteins (pp1a and pp1ab, respectively) using a ribosomal frame shift mechanism. The intact NDiV virion exhibited a spherical form with a diameter of 60-80 nm 2 . The structure, replication and transcription patterns of the viral genome were similar to those of coronaviruses in the order Nidovirales. A phylogenetic analysis showed that NDiV is distantly related to coronaviruses, indicating that this virus represents a missing link in the transition from small to large nidoviruses.
2	109	121 encephalitis	Phenotype	HP_0002383
2	588	594 virion	Gene_function	GO_0019012
2	HP-GO	HP_0002383	GO_0019012

3|chunk|A newly established family, Mesoniviridae, which is based on two closely related viruses, the Cavally virus (CavV) and NDiV, has been classified as a new member of Nidovirales by the Executive Committee of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) 3 . At present, ten mesoniviruses have been successfully isolated, including CavV, the Hana virus (HanaV), the Meno virus (MenoV), the Nse virus (NseV) and the Moumou virus (MoumouV) in Cote d'Ivoire, NDiV in Vietnam and America, the Dak Nong virus (DKNV) in Vietnam, the Bontang Baru virus (BBaV) and the Karang Sari virus (KSaV) in Indonesia, the Kamphaeng Phet virus (KPhV) in Thailand and the Casuarina virus (CASV) in Australia 1, 4-8 . Mesoniviruses are widely distributed in different geographic regions and have a large host range of mosquito species. Thus, these viruses are commonly detected in mosquitoes around the world, with mesoniviruses likely to be present in more area than other viruses 4 . NDiV has been successfully isolated from various mosquito species in Vietnam and the United States. Further investigations of the various features of the ecology, morphology and molecular biology of this virus are critical Published: xx xx xxxx OPEN www.nature.com/scientificreports/ 2 Scientific RepoRts | 7: 271 |

