0|chunk|Ebolaviruses: New roles for old proteins

1|chunk|In 2014, the world witnessed the largest Ebolavirus outbreak in recorded history. The subsequent humanitarian effort spurred extensive research, significantly enhancing our understanding of ebolavirus replication and pathogenicity. The main functions of each ebolavirus protein have been studied extensively since the discovery of the virus in 1976; however, the recent expansion of ebolavirus research has led to the discovery of new protein functions. These newly discovered roles are revealing new mechanisms of virus replication and pathogenicity, whilst enhancing our understanding of the broad functions of each ebolavirus viral protein (VP). Many of these new functions appear to be unrelated to the protein's primary function during virus replication. Such new functions range from bystander T-lymphocyte death caused by VP40-secreted exosomes to new roles for VP24 in viral particle formation. This review highlights the newly discovered roles of ebolavirus proteins in order to provide a more encompassing view of ebolavirus replication and pathogenicity.

2|chunk|Between 2014 and 2016, West Africa experienced the largest Ebolavirus outbreak in recorded history. The international containment effort spurred extensive research that is enhancing our understanding of ebolavirus replication and pathogenicity. Much has been learned about the main function of each ebolavirus protein since the discovery of the virus in 1976; however, recent ebolavirus research has led to the discovery of many new protein functions. These newly discovered roles are revealing new mechanisms of virus replication and pathogenesis and increasing our understanding of how each component of the virus works. This review highlights the newly discovered roles of ebolavirus proteins in order to provide a more encompassing view of ebolavirus replication and pathogenicity.
2	535	547 pathogenesis	Gene_function	GO_0009405

3|chunk|PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.

