0|chunk|Post-Glycosylation Modification of Sialic Acid and Its Role in Virus Pathogenesis
0	69	81 Pathogenesis	Gene_function	GO_0009405

1|chunk|Sialic acids are a family of nine carbon keto-aldononulosonic acids presented at the terminal ends of glycans on cellular membranes. -Linked sialoglycoconjugates often undergo post-glycosylation modifications, among which O-acetylation of N-acetyl neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) is the most common in mammalian cells. Isoforms of sialic acid are critical determinants of virus pathogenesis. To date, the focus of viral receptor-mediated attachment has been on Neu5Ac. O-Acetylated Neu5Acs have been largely ignored as receptor determinants of virus pathogenesis, although it is ubiquitous across species. Significantly, the array of structures resulting from site-specific O-acetylation by sialic acid O-acetyltransferases (SOATs) provides a means to examine specificity of viral binding to host cells. Specifically, C 4 O-acetylated Neu5Ac can influence virus pathogenicity. However, the biological implications of only O-acetylated Neu5Ac at C 7-9 have been explored extensively. This review will highlight the biological significance, extraction methods, and synthetic modifications of C 4 O-acetylated Neu5Ac that may provide value in therapeutic developments and targets to prevent virus related diseases.
1	775	782 binding	Gene_function	GO_0005488

2|chunk|Abstract: Sialic acids are a family of nine carbon keto-aldononulosonic acids presented at the terminal ends of glycans on cellular membranes. -Linked sialoglycoconjugates often undergo postglycosylation modifications, among which O-acetylation of N-acetyl neuraminic acid (Neu5Ac) is the most common in mammalian cells. Isoforms of sialic acid are critical determinants of virus pathogenesis. To date, the focus of viral receptor-mediated attachment has been on Neu5Ac. O-Acetylated Neu5Acs have been largely ignored as receptor determinants of virus pathogenesis, although it is ubiquitous across species. Significantly, the array of structures resulting from sitespecific O-acetylation by sialic acid O-acetyltransferases (SOATs) provides a means to examine specificity of viral binding to host cells. Specifically, C4 O-acetylated Neu5Ac can influence virus pathogenicity. However, the biological implications of only O-acetylated Neu5Ac at C7-9 have been explored extensively. This review will highlight the biological significance, extraction methods, and synthetic modifications of C4 O-acetylated Neu5Ac that may provide value in therapeutic developments and targets to prevent virus related diseases.
2	783	790 binding	Gene_function	GO_0005488

