0|chunk|Supplementary Information Network theory may explain the vulnerability of medieval human settlements to the Black Death pandemic

1|chunk|Building of the medieval trading and pilgrimage network. Several main commercial confederations were active during Late Middle Ages. One of the most active one was the Silk Road, a trading and cultural network spanning along the Asian continent and connecting the Far East and the Mediterranean Sea. In the southern part of Europe there were two trade routes connecting by sea and land Genoa and Venetia with many other cities in the Mediterranean, Northern Africa, Near East, Asia and central Europe. In northern Europe the Hanseatic League connected many ports around the Baltic Sea with cities from North and North--East Europe. Some other minor commercial routes like English Wool Market, Spanish Wine Market or North--African Slave trades were also present at that time. Besides these trading routes, Europe also held some important pilgrimage routes, outstanding the Way of St. James, which connected Santiago de Compostela in Spain with many places in Central and Western Europe, the Via Francigena, which run from Rome to France, although reached places as far as Canterbury in England and the North--African Islamic routes that connected muslim cities with La Mecca in the Arabian Peninsula. To build the medieval trading and pilgrimage networks, we obtained the medieval routes from the Old World Trade Routes Project, OWTRAD 34 . This project provides electronic archives of geo/chrono--referenced data on terrestrial and maritime trade and pilgrimage and trade routes of Eurasia and Africa from 4000 BCE to 1800 CE. We selected those files describing the routes during the XII and XIII centuries CE. In total, we found 22 files with information about routes working during the Black Death period (Supplementary Table S5 online) Using this information, we built up a network that connected Eurasian and African medieval cities sharing trading or pilgrimage routes. This network was built by pooling the information from the 22 files. Because the traffic may occurs in both directions, our network was undirected. Some pair of cities were connected both by trading and pilgrimage routes. However, because information on traffic density is unavailable for the fourteenth century, the original network was unweighted and all connections between pair of cities had the same value = 1. Nevertheless, in order to explore whether trading and pilgrimage activities differed in their effect on plague--mediated mortality, we divided this overall network into two networks, one including only trading links (trading network, hereafter) and the other including only pilgrimage connections (pilgrimage network). For this, we followed the classification of the routes made by the OWTRAD project 34 .
1	486	493 central	Phenotype	HP_0030645
1	959	966 Central	Phenotype	HP_0030645

2|chunk|Global and local transitivity. Network transitivity measures the probability that adjacent nodes in a network are connected forming clusters (3). Networks exhibiting higher values of transitivity are formed by highly connected subsets of nodes. Network transitivity is calculated by dividing the number of closed triples in the graph against the total number of triples 3 . To know whether this transitivity was

