0|chunk|Modulation of Stop Codon Read-Through Efficiency and Its Effect on the Replication of Murine Leukemia Virus
0	93	101 Leukemia	Phenotype	HP_0001909

1|chunk|Translational readthrough-suppression of termination at a stop codon-is exploited in the replication cycles of several viruses and represents a potential target for antiviral intervention. In the gammaretroviruses, typified by Moloney murine leukemia virus (MuLV), gag and pol are in the same reading frame, separated by a UAG stop codon, and termination codon readthrough is required for expression of the viral Gag-Pol fusion protein. Here, we investigated the effect on MuLV replication of modulating readthrough efficiency. We began by manipulating the readthrough signal in the context of an infectious viral clone to generate a series of MuLV variants in which readthrough was stimulated or reduced. In carefully controlled infectivity assays, it was found that reducing the MuLV readthrough efficiency only 4-fold led to a marked defect and that a 10-fold reduction essentially abolished replication. However, up to an 8.5-fold stimulation of readthrough (up to 60% readthrough) was well tolerated by the virus. These high levels of readthrough were achieved using a two-plasmid system, with Gag and Gag-Pol expressed from separate infectious clones. We also modulated readthrough by silencing expression of eukaryotic release factors 1 and 3 (eRF1 and eRF3) or by introducing aminoglycosides into the cells. The data obtained indicate that gammaretroviruses tolerate a substantial excess of viral Gag-Pol synthesis but are very sensitive to a reduction in levels of this polyprotein. Thus, as is also the case for ribosomal frameshifting, antiviral therapies targeting readthrough with inhibitory agents are likely to be the most beneficial.
1	242	250 leukemia	Phenotype	HP_0001909
1	1414	1423 synthesis	Gene_function	GO_0009058
1	HP-GO	HP_0001909	GO_0009058

2|chunk|Many pathogenic RNA viruses and retroviruses use ribosomal frameshifting or stop codon readthrough to regulate expression of their replicase enzymes. These translational "recoding" processes are potential targets for antiviral intervention, but we have only a limited understanding of the consequences to virus replication of modulating the efficiency of recoding, particularly for those viruses employing readthrough. In this paper, we describe the first systematic analysis of the effect of increasing or decreasing readthrough efficiency on virus replication using the gammaretrovirus MuLV as a model system. We find unexpectedly that MuLV replication is only slightly inhibited by substantial increases in readthrough frequency, but as with other viruses that use recoding strategies, replication is quite sensitive to even modest reductions. These studies provide insights into both the readthrough process and MuLV replication and have implications for the selection of antivirals against gammaretroviruses.
2	49	72 ribosomal frameshifting	Gene_function	GO_0075523

