0|chunk|Reassessing therapeutic antibodies for neglected and tropical diseases

1|chunk|In the past two decades there has been a significant expansion in the number of new therapeutic monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) that are approved by regulators. The discovery of these new medicines has been driven primarily by new approaches in inflammatory diseases and oncology, especially in immuno-oncology. Other recent successes have included new antibodies for use in viral diseases, including HIV. The perception of very high costs associated with mAbs has led to the assumption that they play no role in prophylaxis for diseases of poverty. However, improvements in antibody-expression yields and manufacturing processes indicate this is a cost-effective option for providing protection from many types of infection that should be revisited. Recent technology developments also indicate that several months of protection could be achieved with a single dose. Moreover, new methods in B cell sorting now enable the systematic identification of high-quality antibodies from humanized mice, or patients. This Review discusses the potential for passive immunization against schistosomiasis, fungal infections, dengue, and other neglected diseases.

2|chunk|PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.interactions have proved difficult to block. In addition, there has been great progress in the development of technology. Early generations of antibodies for human use were developed from mAbs developed in mice, antibodies that were then humanized. Recently, the technology used peptide and antibody display on phages, for which part of the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Sir Gregory P. Winter [6]. More recently, new technologies have been developed to clone antibodies from memory B cells [7] or plasma B cells [8, 9], allowing the isolation of individual antibodies from patients with viral infections-approaches that can be applied to any infectious disease.
2	338	346 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0003823
2	338	346 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0042571
2	537	543 memory	Gene_function	GO_0007613

3|chunk|A second reason for the popularity of antibodies in recent years is their success rate in clinical development. Once an antibody reaches testing in humans, it has a success rate of 17% to 25% for approval as a new medicine [10], compared with 5% to 10% for small molecules. This success rate is partly due to the exquisite selectivity of mAbs, enabling them to distinguish between closely related molecular targets. In the case of infectious disease, this selectivity can be absolute, since antibodies can be generated that are specific for the invading pathogen and do not cross-react with host tissues. This lack of cross-reactivity with human tissue can be confirmed by immunohistochemistry on both adult and embryonic tissues prior to the start of clinical trials. This is in stark contrast to small molecules, in which sometimes unexpected onand off-target safety signals are frequently seen in the later stages of clinical development, resulting in expensive late-stage attrition. In addition, antibodies show a relatively narrow range of variation in pharmacokinetic exposure, facilitating early estimation of the human effective dose. This is unlike true xenobiotics, whose metabolism and elimination are usually driven by cytochromes, an enzyme class that is encoded by highly polymorphic genes in a process that is, furthermore, sensitive to drug-drug interactions.
3	120	128 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0003823
3	120	128 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0042571
3	1182	1192 metabolism	Gene_function	GO_0008152

4|chunk|The third major driver for the success of mAbs has been commercial. Many mAbs have been developed in oncology. The most recent success story is the development of the checkpoint inhibitors against targets such as programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and related targets [11]. The dramatic clinical effect in subgroups of otherwise treatment-refractory cancer patients has led to products with prices well in excess of US$10,000 per month [12]. Another recent milestone for an infectious disease was the global approval of ibalizumab, a humanized mAb that targets CD4 (cluster of differentiation 4) for the second-line treatment of HIV-1 infection [13].
4	349	355 cancer	Phenotype	HP_0002664

5|chunk|Given all this excitement about mAbs, it is pertinent to ask what role they could play in the protection against infection, particularly in the case of diseases of neglected populations. General concerns arguing against their use include the need for simple delivery, the high price, and, indeed, whether there is a need, given the potential for vaccination. In this Review, we show how recent developments in technology have addressed many of these concerns. By looking at the progress of mAbs against specific diseases of neglected patient populations, the key highlights as well as the key development gaps are illustrated.

