0|chunk|Inevitable isolation and the change of stress markers in hemodialysis patients during the 2015 MERS- CoV outbreak in Korea OPEN

1|chunk|(n = 83) and medical staff (n = 12) had to undergo dialysis treatment in an isolated environment. This study was performed to investigate the effects of stress caused by dialysis treatment under isolation. Plasma samples from the HD patients and medical staff were collected at the time of isolation(M0), the following month(M1), and three months after isolation(M3). Parameters for stress included circulating cell-free genomic DNA(ccf-gDNA), circulating cell-free mitochondria DNA(ccf-mtDNA), and pentraxin-3(PTX-3). Decreased values of Hct, kt/v and ca x p were recovered after the end of two weeks of isolation. The levels of ccf-gDNA and ccf-mtDNA were the highest at M0 and decreased gradually in both HD patients and the medical staff. The normalization of ccf-gDNA and ccf-mtDNA was significantly delayed in HD patients compared with the response in the medical staff. PTX-3 increased only in HD patients and was highest at M0, and it then gradually decreased. Medical isolation and subnormal quality of care during the MERS outbreak caused extreme stress in HD patients. Plasma cell-free DNA and PTX-3 seems to be good indicators of stress and quality of care in HD patients. Measurement of plasma cell-free genomic DNA and cell-free mitochondria DNA. Circulating cf-DNA was extracted from 200 L of plasma using a QIAamp DNeasy Blood and Tissue kit (Qiagen, Valencia, Calif). The ccf-gDNA and ccf-mtDNA were amplified using a StepOnePlus real-time PCR system (Applied Biosystems, Massachusetts). Primers for the human NADH1 dehydrogenase 1 gene (ND1) were used for mtDNA, and primers for the human lipoprotein lipase gene (LPL) were used for gDNA. Standard DNA fragments of ND1 and LPL were synthesized using an Integrated DNA Technologies kit (IDT, Coralville, IA) for absolute quantification. The fragment solutions were 10-fold serially diluted. The concentrations of DNA were converted to copy number using the Andrew Staroscik Calculator for the absolute copy number from a template 33 . All samples were analyzed in duplicate, and a no-template negative control was included in every analysis.
1	466	478 mitochondria	Gene_function	GO_0005739
1	1243	1255 mitochondria	Gene_function	GO_0005739

2|chunk|Pentraxin-3 (PTX-3) ELIZA. The level of PTX-3 in plasma was measured using a Quantikine ELISA Human Pentraxin 3/TSG-13 kit (R&D Systems, Minneapolis) according to the manufacturer's protocol. The detection range was 0.31-20.00 ng/mL. Concentrations were determined using a standard curve generated from specific standards provided by the manufacturer. Each sample was measured in duplicate.

3|chunk|Statistics. Statistical analyses were conducted using SPSS software (version 20 SPSS, Inc., Chicago, IL). For normally distributed variables, Student's t-test and one-way ANOVA were used for comparisons, and the data are presented as the mean  SE. The Mann-Whitney U and Kruskal-Wallis tests were used for comparisons of variables that were not normally distributed. Correlations were assessed with Pearson's correlation coefficient for parametric distributions. Statistical significance was set at P < 0.05.

