0|chunk|Prolonging herd immunity to cholera via vaccination: Accounting for human mobility and waning vaccine effects

1|chunk|Oral cholera vaccination is an approach to preventing outbreaks in at-risk settings and controlling cholera in endemic settings. However, vaccine-derived herd immunity may be shortlived due to interactions between human mobility and imperfect or waning vaccine efficacy. As the supply and utilization of oral cholera vaccines grows, critical questions related to herd immunity are emerging, including: who should be targeted; when should revaccination be performed; and why have cholera outbreaks occurred in recently vaccinated populations?

2|chunk|Citation: Peak CM, Reilly AL, Azman AS, Buckee CO (2018) Prolonging herd immunity to cholera via vaccination: Accounting for human mobility and waning vaccine effects. PLoS Negl Trop Dis 12(2): e0006257. https://doi.org/10.vaccinated communities are possible but become less likely through complementary interventions or data-driven revaccination strategies.

3|chunk|Cholera vaccination can be a relatively quick means to temporarily prevent cholera from spreading in an at-risk population. In order to understand how long this temporary protection remains and therefore the timeline for when we need to install longer-term water and sanitation solutions, we must know how long we can expect the vaccine to provide herd protection. To answer this and other related questions, we developed a mathematical model to test different vaccination strategies in a simulated population and in a case study of a displaced-persons camp in Bentiu, South Sudan. We found that the duration of vaccine-derived herd protection can be short (<1 year) in settings of moderate transmission potential and high population mobility, but this duration can be extended through a strategy that complements a one-time mass vaccination campaign with ongoing, routine vaccination. We show that short-lived vaccine efficacy and high population turnover in the Bentiu camp can help explain why the camp had a cholera outbreak despite two high-coverage vaccination campaigns in the two previous years. Our results support, and provide timelines for, cholera vaccination as initial protection while longer-term structural interventions can be implemented.
3	682	690 moderate	Phenotype	HP_0012826

