0|chunk|Characterisation of N-glycans in the epithelial-like tissue of the rat cochlea

1|chunk|Membrane proteins (such as ion channels, transporters, and receptors) and secreted proteins are essential for cellular activities. N-linked glycosylation is involved in stability and function of these proteins and occurs at Asn residues. In several organs, profiles of N-glycans have been determined by comprehensive analyses. Nevertheless, the cochlea of the mammalian inner ear, a tiny organ mediating hearing, has yet to be examined. Here, we focused on the stria vascularis, an epithelial-like tissue in the cochlea, and characterised N-glycans by liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry. This hypervascular tissue not only expresses several ion transporters and channels to control the electrochemical balance in the cochlea but also harbours different transporters and receptors that maintain structure and activity of the organ. Seventy-nine N-linked glycans were identified in the rat stria vascularis. Among these, in 55 glycans, the complete structures were determined; in the other 24 species, partial glycosidic linkage patterns and full profiles of the monosaccharide composition were identified. In the process of characterisation, several sialylated glycans were subjected sequentially to two different alkylamidation reactions; this derivatisation helped to distinguish 2,3-linkage and 2,6-linkage sialyl isomers with mass spectrometry. These data should accelerate elucidation of the molecular architecture of the cochlea.
1	0	8 Membrane	Gene_function	GO_0016020
1	140	153 glycosylation	Gene_function	GO_0070085

2|chunk|Cellular and tissue functions are precisely and dynamically controlled by a variety of membrane-integral proteins such as receptors, ion channels, and transporters. More than 50% of these proteins are glycosylated 1 . This post-transcriptional modification also occurs in the majority of secreted proteins that mediate the cross-talk among cells 2 . Glycosylation affects Asn residues (N-glycans) or Ser/Thr residues (O-glycans). Recent studies highlighted roles of different N-glycans not only in the processes related to protein stability and trafficking but also in the modulation of actions of membrane proteins 3,4 . Therefore, characterisation of glycan types expressed in each tissue or organ is crucial for elucidation of molecular architectures underlying vital phenomena in various organisms.
2	350	363 Glycosylation	Gene_function	GO_0070085
2	598	606 membrane	Gene_function	GO_0016020

3|chunk|Although structures of N-glycans in serum and several organs including the brain, lungs, and kidneys have been comprehensively analysed 5-8 , those in the cochlea of the mammalian inner ear, a small organ of a few millimetres in size, have not yet been sufficiently profiled. In the cochlea, the stria vascularis, an epithelial-like tissue composed of marginal, intermediate, and basal cells, contains numerous capillaries; therefore, it carries a variety of substances including hormones, metabolites, glucose, and even externally applied drugs, from blood to itself and other tissues 9-11 . These actions are likely to be mediated by a considerable number of organic transporters;

4|chunk|Published: xx xx xxxx opeN www.nature.com/scientificreports/

