0|chunk|Detection of Colorectal Cancer by Serum and Tissue Protein Profi ling: A Prospective Study in a Population at Risk
0	24	30 Cancer	Phenotype	HP_0002664

1|chunk|Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common cause of cancer-related death in Europe and its prognosis is largely dependent on stage at diagnosis. Currently, there are no suitable tumour markers for early detection of CRC. In a retrospective study we previously found discriminative CRC serum protein profi les with surface enhanced laser desorption ionisation-time of fl ight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS). We now aimed at prospective validation of these profi les. Additionally, we assessed their applicability for follow-up after surgery and investigated tissue protein profi les of patients with CRC and adenomatous polyps (AP). Serum and tissue samples were collected from patients without known malignancy with an indication for colonoscopy and patients with AP and CRC during colonoscopy. Serum samples of controls (CON; n = 359), patients with AP (n = 177) and CRC (n = 73), as well as tissue samples from AP (n = 52) and CRC (n = 47) were analysed as described previously. Peak intensities were compared by non-parametric testing. Discriminative power of differentially expressed proteins was assessed with support vector machines (SVM). We confi rmed the decreased serum levels of apolipoprotein C-1 in CRC in the current population. No differences were observed between CON and AP. Apolipoprotein C-I levels did not change signifi cantly within 1 month post-surgery, although a gradual return to normal levels was observed. Several proteins differed between AP and CRC tissue, among which a peak with similar mass as apolipoprotein C-1. This peak was increased in CRC compared to AP. Although we prospectively validated the serum decrease of apolipoprotein C-1 in CRC, serum protein profi les did not yield SVM classifi ers with suitable sensitivity and specifi city for classifi cation of our patient groups.
1	11	17 cancer	Phenotype	HP_0002664
1	185	191 tumour	Phenotype	HP_0002664

