0|chunk|Bacillus subtilis and surfactin inhibit the transmissible gastroenteritis virus from entering the intestinal epithelial cells

1|chunk|infection. It is urgent to develop a novel candidate against TGEV entry. Bacillus subtilis is a probiotic with excellent anti-microorganism properties and one of its secretions, surfactin, has been regarded as a versatile weapon for most plant pathogens, especially for the enveloped virus. We demonstrate for the first time that B. subtilis OKB105 and its surfactin can effectively inhibit one animal coronavirus, TGEV, entering the intestinal porcine epithelial cell line (IPEC-J2). Then, several different experiments were performed to seek the might mechanisms. The plaque assays showed that surfactant could reduce the plaque generation of TGEV in a dose-dependent manner. Meanwhile, after incubation with TGEV for 1.5 h, B. subtilis could attach TGEV particles to their surface so that the number of virus to bind to the host cells was declined. Furthermore, our data showed that the inhibition of B. subtilis was closely related to the competition with TGEV for the viral entry receptors, including epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and aminopeptidase N (APN) protein. In addition, Western blotting and apoptosis analysis indicated that B. subtilis could enhance the resistance of IPEC-J2 cells by up-regulating the expression of toll-like receptor (TLR)-6 and reducing the percentage of apoptotic cells. Taken together, our results suggest that B. subtilis OKB105 and its surfactin can antagonize TGEV entry in vitro and may serve as promising new candidates for TGEV prevention.
1	1016	1022 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007
1	1040	1044 EGFR	Gene_function	GO_0005006

2|chunk|found that after treating with 0.002 g/ml surfactin for 1.5 h, the percentage of apoptotic cells was depressed, which indicted that a safe dose and for a safe time, surfactin could display a positive effect on cells. But how surfactin affect the cells, especially animal cells needs more penetrating study.

3|chunk|The results of the present study demonstrate that B. subtilis OKB105 and the surfactin have antiviral activity against TGEV entering IPEC-J2 cells. And that possibly overlapping mechanisms lead to the antiviral activity: might by competing with TGEV in combining to the receptors, adsorptive trapping, inactivation of virus particles of surfactin, improvement of the cell state through activating the innate immunity and induce the apoptosis level. This finding suggests that B. subtilis OKB105 and the surfactin could serve as potential candidates against TGEV entry in vitro.
3	401	416 innate immunity	Gene_function	GO_0045087

