0|chunk|Development of in vitro and in vivo rabies virus neutralization assays based on a high-titer pseudovirus system OPEN

1|chunk|Pseudoviruses are useful virological tools because of their safety and versatility; however the low titer of these viruses substantially limits their wider applications. We developed a highly efficient pseudovirus production system capable of yielding 100 times more rabies pseudovirus than the traditional method. Employing the high-titer pseudoviruses, we have developed robust in vitro and in vivo neutralization assays for the evaluation of rabies vaccine, which traditionally relies on livevirus based assays. Compared with current rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test (RFFIT), our in vitro pseudovirus-based neutralization assay (PBNA) is much less labor-intensive while demonstrating better reproducibility. Moreover, the in vivo PBNA assay was also found to be superior to the live virus based assay. Following intravenous administration, the pseudovirus effectively infected the mice, with dynamic viral distributions being sequentially observed in spleen, liver and brain. Furthermore, data from in vivo PBNA showed great agreement with those generated from the live virus model but with the experimental time significantly reduced from 2 weeks to 3 days. Taken together, the effective pseudovirus production system facilitated the development of novel PBNA assays which could replace live virus-based traditional assays due to its safety, rapidity, reproducibility and high throughput capacity.

2|chunk|Rabies remains an acute zoonotic disease with a case-fatality rate of approaching 100%, causing almost 60,000 deaths annually 1,2 ; the majority of cases are found in Asia and Africa 3,4 . Although a lethal disease, rabies could be effectively prevented by post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) regimen. Specifically, prompt administration of vaccines in conjunction with rabies-immunoglobulins and proper wound management after exposure prevent rabies even after high-risk exposure 4,5 . Animal studies have demonstrated that rabies-specific antibodies, especially the neutralizing antibodies, played an essential role in vaccine-mediated protection 6 . Yet, clinical evaluation of rabies vaccines in humans is not possible due to ethical considerations. Therefore, new rabies vaccines or rabies-specific immunoglobulins must be evaluated for their potency by in vitro and in vivo assays prior to being authorized for human use 7 .
2	18	23 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009

3|chunk|The current assays for immunogenicity determination of rabies vaccines and immunoglobulin have several inherent limitations. Specifically, vaccine-induced or natural infection-elicited antibody responses against rabies virus are determined using serological assays including the rapid fluorescent focus inhibition test (RFFIT) 8 , fluorescent antibody virus neutralization (FAVN) test 9 and enzyme linked immunosorbant assay (ELISA) 10 . Currently, the "gold standard" for in vitro assays are RFFIT and FAVN, both of which are routinely used in WHO reference laboratories; however, both assays require the use of live rabies viruses which must be handled in biosafety level 2 (BSL-2) containment facilities 8, 9, 11 . Although inactivated viruses are used as coating antigens in
3	75	89 immunoglobulin	Gene_function	GO_0003823
3	185	193 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0003823
3	185	193 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0042571
3	343	351 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0003823
3	343	351 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0042571

