0|chunk|Phylogeographic analysis of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome patients using multiplex PCR-based next generation sequencing OPEN
0	40	45 fever	Phenotype	HP_0001945

1|chunk|Emerging and re-emerging infectious diseases caused by RNA viruses pose a critical public health threat. Next generation sequencing (NGS) is a powerful technology to define genomic sequences of the viruses. Of particular interest is the use of whole genome sequencing (WGS) to perform phylogeographic analysis, that allows the detection and tracking of the emergence of viral infections. Hantaviruses, Bunyaviridae, cause hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) and hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS) in humans. We propose to use WGS for the phylogeographic analysis of human hantavirus infections. A novel multiplex PCR-based NGS was developed to gather whole genome sequences of Hantaan virus (HTNV) from HFRS patients and rodent hosts in endemic areas. The obtained genomes were described for the spatial and temporal links between cases and their sources. Phylogenetic analyses demonstrated geographic clustering of HTNV strains from clinical specimens with the HTNV strains circulating in rodents, suggesting the most likely site and time of infection. Recombination analysis demonstrated a genome organization compatible with recombination of the HTNV S segment. The multiplex PCR-based NGS is useful and robust to acquire viral genomic sequences and may provide important ways to define the phylogeographical association and molecular evolution of hantaviruses.
1	434	439 fever	Phenotype	HP_0001945

2|chunk|Defining viral genomic sequences are critical for the diagnosis, developing risk analyses and control strategies for emerging infectious diseases 1 . Recently, viral outbreaks of emerging pathogens are serious public health threats worldwide, in part as a result of lack of specific and rapid medical treatments 2,3 . Acquisition of whole virus genomic sequences based on next generation sequencing (NGS) increases the potential to clarify the etiology of infectious diseases and therapeutics 4 . NGS technology provides a robust tool to obtain quantitative genomic information using high throughput sequencing 5 . It is less-costly, highly efficient, and effective for the recovery of genomic sequences of clinical and environment samples. Currently, the technology applies to investigation for a variety of human diseases 6-8 . In addition, it promotes the understanding of microbes in humans leading for the control of metabolism and infectious diseases 9,10 . It has slowly advanced in the field of virology because of
2	922	932 metabolism	Gene_function	GO_0008152

