0|chunk|New Antimicrobial Potential and Structural Properties of PAFB: A Cationic, Cysteine-Rich Protein from Penicillium chrysogenum Q176

1|chunk|Small, cysteine-rich and cationic proteins with antimicrobial activity are produced by diverse organisms of all kingdoms and represent promising molecules for drug development. The ancestor of all industrial penicillin producing strains, the ascomycete Penicillium chryosgenum Q176, secretes the extensively studied antifungal protein PAF. However, the genome of this strain harbours at least two more genes that code for other small, cysteine-rich and cationic proteins with potential antifungal activity. In this study, we characterized the pafB gene product that shows high similarity to PgAFP from P. chrysogenum R42C. Although abundant and timely regulated pafB gene transcripts were detected, we could not identify PAFB in the culture broth of P. chrysogenum Q176. Therefore, we applied a P. chrysogenum-based expression system to produce sufficient amounts of recombinant PAFB to address unanswered questions concerning the structure and antimicrobial function. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)-based analyses revealed a compact -folded structure, comprising five -strands connected by four solvent exposed and flexible loops and an "abcabc" disulphide bond pattern. We identified PAFB as an inhibitor of growth of human pathogenic moulds and yeasts. Furthermore, we document for the first time an anti-viral activity for two members of the small, cysteine-rich and cationic protein group from ascomycetes.
1	1214	1220 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007

2|chunk|The increasing incidence of fatal microbial infections due to the development of resistance against licensed antimicrobial drugs raises a strong demand for new antimicrobial treatment strategies. Filamentous ascomycetes are a rich source of antimicrobial bio-molecules that have the potential for wide application in medicine and agriculture to prevent and treat microbial infections 1 . As such, the industrially relevant fungus Penicillium chrysogenum is not only a well-known producer of the -lactam antibiotic penicillin, but also secretes small, cysteine-rich and cationic proteins with antimicrobial activity. P. chrysogenum is an ideal producer of bio-products with beneficial potential to mankind as it is fermentable and bulk production is easy and cheap 2 . Most importantly, it is recognized as a "safe organism" by the US Food and Drug Administration.

3|chunk|The P. chrysogenum strain Q176 is the ancestor of all industrial strains used for penicillin production today 2,3 and of the strains Wisconsin 54-1255 4 and P2niaD18 5 , whose genomes were sequenced and are publicly available. P. chrysogenum Q176 secretes the antifungal protein PAF whose structural and functional properties have been extensively studied 6-8 . PAF represents a promising bio-molecule for novel antifungal drug development as

