0|chunk|Structure of a pentameric virion-associated fiber with a potential role in Orsay virus entry to host cells

1|chunk|Despite the wide use of Caenorhabditis elegans as a model organism, the first virus naturally infecting this organism was not discovered until six years ago. The Orsay virus and its related nematode viruses have a positive-sense RNA genome, encoding three proteins: CP, RdRP, and a novel  protein that shares no homology with any other proteins.  can be expressed either as a free  or a CP- fusion protein by ribosomal frameshift, but the structure and function of both  and CP- remain unknown. Using a combination of electron microscopy, X-ray crystallography, computational and biophysical analyses, here we show that the Orsay  protein forms a~420- long, pentameric fiber with an N-terminal -helical bundle, a -stranded filament in the middle, and a C-terminal head domain. The pentameric nature of the  fiber has been independently confirmed by both mass spectrometry and analytical ultracentrifugation. Recombinant Orsay capsid containing CP- shows protruding long fibers with globular heads at the distal end. Mutant viruses with disrupted CP- fibers were generated by organism-based reverse genetics. These viruses were found to be either non-viable or with poor infectivity according to phenotypic and qRT-PCR analyses. Furthermore, addition of purified  proteins to worm culture greatly reduced Orsay infectivity in a sequence-specific manner. Based on the structure resemblance between the Orsay CP- fiber and the fibers from reovirus and adenovirus, we propose that CP- functions as a cell attachment protein to mediate Orsay entry into worm intestine cells.
1	1016	1022 distal	Phenotype	HP_0012839

2|chunk|Orsay, the only virus known to naturally infect the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, expresses a capsid- fusion protein. We have demonstrated that the Orsay fusion protein is incorporated into Orsay capsid and forms a~420- long fiber protruding from the PLOS Pathogens |

