0|chunk|Porcine -defensin 2 inhibits proliferation of pseudorabies virus in vitro and in transgenic mice

1|chunk|Background: Porcine -defensin 2 (PBD-2), produced by host cells, is an antimicrobial cysteine-rich cationic peptide with multi-functions. Previous studies have demonstrated that PBD-2 can kill various bacteria, regulate host immune responses and promote growth of piglets. However, the antiviral role of PBD-2 is rarely investigated. This study aimed to reveal the antiviral ability of PBD-2 against pseudorabies virus (PRV), the causative pathogen of Aujeszky's disease, in PK-15 cells and in a PBD-2 expressing transgenic (TG) mouse model. Methods: In this study, the cytotoxicity of PBD-2 on PK-15 cells was measured by CCK-8 assay. PK-15 cells were incubated with PRV pre-treated with different concentrations of PBD-2 and PRV titers in cell culture supernatants were determined by real-time quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). TG mice and wild-type (WT) mice were intraperitoneally injected with PRV and the survival rate was recorded for 10 days. Meanwhile, tissue lesions in brain, spleen and liver of infected mice were observed and the viral loads of PRV in brain, liver and lung were analyzed by RT-qPCR.
1	255	261 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007

2|chunk|Results: PBD-2 at a maximum concentration of 80 g/mL displayed no significant cytotoxicity on PK-15 cells. A threshold concentration of PBD-2 at 40 g/mL was required to inhibit PRV proliferation in PK-15 cells. The survival rate in PBD-2 TG mice was 50% higher than that of WT mice. In addition, TG mice showed alleviated tissue lesions in brain, spleen and liver compared with their WT littermates after PRV challenge, while viral loads of PRV in brain, liver and lung of TG mice were significantly lower than that of WT mice.

3|chunk|Conclusions: PBD-2 could inhibit PRV proliferation in PK-15 cells and protect mice from PRV infection, which confirmed the antiviral ability of PBD-2 both in vitro and in vivo. The application of PBD-2 in developing anti-viral drugs or disease-resistant animals can be further investigated.

