0|chunk|HHS Public Access

1|chunk|From 2010 to 2013, the National Library of Medicine (NLM) Disaster Information Management Research Center (DIMRC) continued to build its programs and services on the foundation laid in its starting years, 2008-2010. Prior to 2008, NLM had a long history of providing health information, training, and tools in response to disasters. Aware of this legacy, the NLM long range plan (Charting a Course for the 21st Century: NLM's Long Range Plan 2006-2016) called for creation of a center to show "a strong commitment to disaster remediation and to provide a platform for demonstrating how libraries and librarians can be part of the solution to this national problem". NLM is continuing efforts to ensure that medical libraries have plans for the continuity of their operations, librarians are trained to understand their roles in preparedness and response, online disaster health information resources are available for many audiences and in multiple formats, and research is conducted on tools to enhance the exchange of critical information during and following disasters. This paper describes the 2010-2013 goals and activities of DIMRC and its future plans.

2|chunk|Keywords

3|chunk|Ensuring that tools and resources are available in a variety of formats, using the latest technology commonly in use.

4|chunk|Outreach and Partnerships -Collaborating with other federal agencies, state and local communities, public health officials, and emergency managers in efforts to prevent, respond to, and reduce the adverse health effects of disasters.

5|chunk|-Partnering with other government agencies involved in disaster health to ensure information needs receive adequate attention in planning for disasters and are included in training for responders.

6|chunk|-Providing guides to disaster medicine and public health information resources for specific incidents, such as the Haiti earthquake and cholera outbreak; the Gulf of Mexico oil spill; the earthquake, tsunami, and radiation incident in Japan; and Hurricane Sandy.

7|chunk|-Collaborating with NLM, its eight Regional Medical Libraries, and 6,000+ member-libraries of its National Network of Libraries of Medicine (NN/LM) [31] in planning and training for continuity of operations for library facilities, services and staff.

8|chunk|This paper explores each of these areas of interest and also includes guidance provided by an advisory group established by the NLM Board of Regents and by the DIMRC strategic plan (2012)(2013)(2014)(2015).

9|chunk|Love et al.

