0|chunk|molecules A Spotlight on Viruses-Application of Click Chemistry to Visualize Virus-Cell Interactions

1|chunk|The replication of a virus within its host cell involves numerous interactions between viral and cellular factors, which have to be tightly controlled in space and time. The intricate interplay between viral exploitation of cellular pathways and the intrinsic host defense mechanisms is difficult to unravel by traditional bulk approaches. In recent years, novel fluorescence microscopy techniques and single virus tracking have transformed the investigation of dynamic virus-host interactions. A prerequisite for the application of these imaging-based methods is the attachment of a fluorescent label to the structure of interest. However, their small size, limited coding capacity and multifunctional proteins render viruses particularly challenging targets for fluorescent labeling approaches. Click chemistry in conjunction with genetic code expansion provides virologists with a novel toolbox for site-specific, minimally invasive labeling of virion components, whose potential has just recently begun to be exploited. Here, we summarize recent achievements, current developments and future challenges for the labeling of viral nucleic acids, proteins, glycoproteins or lipids using click chemistry in order to study dynamic processes in virus-cell interactions. Molecules 2019, 24, 481 2 of 30
1	38	47 host cell	Gene_function	GO_0043657
1	948	954 virion	Gene_function	GO_0019012

2|chunk|viruses that may serve as targets for antiviral strategies, but can also provide unique insights into the cellular machinery (ab)used by the intruder. Since a number of virus particles can enter a single host cell-potentially following different productive pathways-and a large number of progeny particles are produced in an asynchronous manner, single virus imaging and real-time single virus tracking (SVT) approaches have proven to be crucial for the investigation of virus-host cell relationships.
2	404	407 SVT	Phenotype	HP_0004755

3|chunk|Molecules 2019, 24, x 2 of 30 weaknesses of pathogenic viruses that may serve as targets for antiviral strategies, but can also provide unique insights into the cellular machinery (ab)used by the intruder. Since a number of virus particles can enter a single host cell-potentially following different productive pathways-and a large number of progeny particles are produced in an asynchronous manner, single virus imaging and real-time single virus tracking (SVT) approaches have proven to be crucial for the investigation of virus-host cell relationships.
3	459	462 SVT	Phenotype	HP_0004755

