0|chunk|Development of a Recombinase Polymerase Amplification Assay for Detection of Epidemic Human Noroviruses OPEN

1|chunk|Human norovirus is a leading cause of viral gastroenteritis worldwide. Rapid detection could facilitate control, however widespread point-of-care testing is infrequently done due to the lack of robust and portable methods. Recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) is a novel isothermal method which rapidly amplifies and detects nucleic acids using a simple device in near real-time. An RT-RPA assay targeting a recent epidemic human norovirus strain (GII.4 New Orleans) was developed and evaluated in this study. The assay successfully detected purified norovirus RNA from multiple patient outbreak isolates and had a limit of detection of 3.40  0.20 log 10 genomic copies (LGC), which is comparable to most other reported isothermal norovirus amplification methods. The assay also detected norovirus in directly boiled stool, and displayed better resistance to inhibitors than a commonly used RT-qPCR assay. The assay was specific, as it did not amplify genomes from 9 non-related enteric viruses and bacteria. The assay detected norovirus in some samples in as little as 6 min, and the entire detection process can be performed in less than 30 min. The reported RT-RPA method shows promise for sensitive point-of-care detection of epidemic human norovirus, and is the fastest human norovirus amplification method to date.
1	261	264 RPA	Gene_function	GO_0005662

2|chunk|Human norovirus is estimated to account for a fifth of all acute gastroenteritis cases worldwide 1 , costing $2.8-$3.7 billion in annual economic losses in the U.S. alone 2 . Norovirus is especially troublesome in healthcare settings, as outbreaks result in consumption of resources, extended hospital stays, ward closures, and high morbidity 3 . Thus, early detection of clinical infection is important as it can facilitate more rapid implementation of rigorous controls, which can result in reduced health care costs and improved public health 4 .
2	59	64 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009

3|chunk|Detection of human norovirus historically relies on reverse transcriptase quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). However, this method requires time-consuming sample preparation and purification and is sensitive to matrix-associated inhibitors 5 . RT-qPCR also relies on bulky instrumentation and usually takes over an hour to complete. Recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) is a novel isothermal PCR alternative that produces results in 20 minutes or less with portable instrumentation. RPA uses bacterial recombinase enzymes to anneal primers to template DNA for extension and amplification by an isothermal polymerase 6,7 . The basic RPA platform has been used in concert with a reverse transcriptase and a fluorescent probe system for real time detection of viral pathogens with RNA genomes 8, 9 . Its use of sequence repair enzymes theoretically provides a higher fidelity than RT-qPCR 6,7 , although the assay's sensitivity to matrix-associated inhibitors is poorly characterized. The purpose of this study was to develop a real time RT-RPA assay for rapid detection of a recent epidemic human norovirus strain and evaluate its performance in both purified and minimally processed outbreak-derived clinical (stool) specimens.
3	385	388 RPA	Gene_function	GO_0005662
3	503	506 RPA	Gene_function	GO_0005662
3	652	655 RPA	Gene_function	GO_0005662

4|chunk|Development and Screening of RT-RPA primer and probe sets. Forty-eight combinations of candidate primers (8 forward and 12 reverse) were generated and screened for reactivity to purified GII.4 New Orleans RNA. Of these, 8 primer sets were identified as capable of amplifying target RNA, and a probe (NOP1) was

