0|chunk|Identification and genetic characterization of a novel Orthobunyavirus species by a straightforward high-throughput sequencing-based approach OPEN

1|chunk|any prior assumptions about the characteristics of the organisms. However, the use of HTS for the characterization of viral pathogens from clinical samples remains limited. Here, we report the identification of a novel Orthobunyavirus species isolated from horse plasma. The identification was based on a straightforward HTS approach. Following enrichment in cell culture, RNA was extracted from the growth medium and rapid library preparation, HTS and primary bioinformatic analyses were performed in less than 12 hours. Taxonomical profiling of the sequencing reads did not reveal sequence similarities to any known virus. Subsequent application of de novo assembly tools to the sequencing reads produced contigs, of which three showed some similarity to the L, M, and S segments of viruses belonging to the Orthobunyavirus genus. Further refinement of these contigs resulted in high-quality, full-length genomic sequences of the three genomic segments (L, M and S) of a novel Orthobunyavirus.
1	400	406 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007

2|chunk|Viruses are a global source of significant health and economic burdens. Interactions between humans and animals are the paramount driving force for the ever-growing distribution and emergence of novel viruses. Other reasons for the spread of new viruses include climate change, globalization, social mobilization and intensive farming 1-3 . A novel virus might emerge in the form of an outbreak, and in this scenario, rapid diagnosis is of extreme importance for the selection of prevention and treatment strategies. However, such a diagnosis is not trivial, especially for RNA viruses, since the viruses in this category have small but highly variable genomes 4 . Viruses can be identified by a wide range of techniques. Traditional methods rely on morphological characteristics observed by light microscopy or transmission electron microscopy (TEM) in various specimens such as cell cultures and fertilized eggs. Serology, as well as antibody-based diagnostics, allow to identify the virus and in some cases even at the species level. However, these methods provide only morphological clues, depend on the availability of an antiserum and, for the most part, are not strain specific 5 . In recent decades, molecular methods such as PCR, RT-PCR and microarrays, which are in most cases more sensitive than traditional techniques, have been used to complement and even replace traditional techniques. However, most of the molecular assays bromide gel electrophoresis. The agarose gel was then visualized under UV light using a Bio-Rad Gel Doc 2000 gel documentation system. A 50-bp DNA ladder (Cat# N3236L, New England Biolabs) was used for RT-PCR product size determination.
2	846	849 TEM	Gene_function	GO_0097197

