0|chunk|In Vivo Activity of Amodiaquine against ebola Virus infection

1|chunk|World Health Organization guidelines. In an Ebola treatment center in Liberia, EVD patients receiving the combination antimalarial artesunate-amodiaquine had a lower risk of death compared to those treated with artemether-lumefantrine. As artemether and artesunate are derivatives of artemisinin, the beneficial anti-Ebola virus (EBOV) effect observed could possibly be attributed to the change from lumefantrine to amodiaquine. Amodiaquine is a widely used antimalarial in the countries that experience outbreaks of EVD and, therefore, holds promise as an approved drug that could be repurposed for treating EBOV infections. We investigated the potential anti-EBOV effect of amodiaquine in a well-characterized nonhuman primate model of EVD. Using a similar 3-day antimalarial dosing strategy as for human patients, plasma concentrations of amodiaquine in healthy animals were similar to those found in humans. However, the treatment regimen did not result in a survival benefit or decrease of disease signs in EBOV-infected animals. While amodiaquine on its own failed to demonstrate efficacy, we cannot exclude potential therapeutic value of amodiaquine when used in combination with artesunate or another antiviral.
1	857	864 healthy	Phenotype	HP_0032322

2|chunk|Currently, no vaccines, therapeutics, or prophylactics are approved to prevent or treat disease resulting from Ebola virus (EBOV) infection. The two largest recorded outbreaks of Ebola virus disease (EVD), which include the recent 2013-2016 Ebola virus outbreak in Western Africa and the ongoing outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo, illustrate the critical need for the development and approval of medical countermeasures. These countermeasures could potentially treat patients with suspected EVD, prevent the development of disease following a known exposure, or protect those at risk for possible exposure, such family members or health care workers and laboratory support staff working to control EVD outbreaks.

3|chunk|Patients with suspected EVD are provided supportive care and standard therapies to treat other infections with similar onset of symptoms (e.g., malaria, typhoid fever) prevalent in the area 1 . The World Health Organization recommends that patients with suspected EVD are treated with an antimalarial empirically when malaria diagnostics are not available or when test results are delayed 1 . In August of 2014, an Ebola treatment center in Liberia was in short supply of the standard antimalarial combination drug (artemether-lumefantrine) used for patients with suspected EVD. As a result, 71 patients with confirmed EVD were prescribed the antimalarial combination drug which contains the compounds artesunate (AS) and amodiaquine (AQ). A recent study evaluated and compared the outcome of these EVD patients who were prescribed artesunate-amodiaquine (ASAQ) with those who received artemether-lumefantrine 2 . Patients who were prescribed ASAQ had a 31% lower risk of death relative to a group of 191 patients treated with artemether-lumefantrine. All patients were admitted into the same treatment www.nature.com/scientificreports www.nature.com/scientificreports/ center within a 5-month span, had confirmed EVD, and had no other obvious changes in their care during this period. Another retrospective study performed on data from 5 Ebola treatment centers in Liberia and Sierra Leone also showed a trend towards decreased mortality in EVD patients that received ASAQ 3 . As both artemether and AS are derivatives of artemisinin, the potential beneficial anti-EBOV effect observed with ASAQ could possibly be attributed to the change from lumefantrine to AQ. Alternatively, the improved response might be attributed to adverse effects of lumefantrine in EVD patients rather than improved treatment.
3	119	124 onset	Phenotype	HP_0003674
3	161	166 fever	Phenotype	HP_0001945

4|chunk|AQ has been identified as a potent EBOV inhibitor in multiple in vitro assays 4-8 . AQ is rapidly metabolized to the active metabolite, desethylamodiaquine (DEAQ), following oral administration. Both AQ and the metabolite DEAQ are known to have in vitro antiviral activity against EBOV 8 . AS has been reported to have antiviral activity against other viruses 9 , but no activity against EBOV has been demonstrated 4 . While AQ in vitro activity against EBOV has been characterized in detail, evaluation in a more relevant disease model, such as nonhuman primates (NHPs), has not been performed.

5|chunk|AQ was not efficacious against mouse-adapted EBOV (ma-EBOV) in mice 7 ; however, the dose (60 mg/kg BID) and route of administration (intraperitoneal) were different from the treatment regimen used in human patients. In addition, the EBOV infection mouse model using ma-EBOV does not mimic aspects of human disease, such as rash, coagulation, and hemorrhagic manifestations. Therefore, countermeasures for the treatment or prevention of EBOV infection should be appropriately evaluated in relevant animal models prior to being used in humans. Both the cynomolgus and rhesus macaque models have previously been shown to mimic many critical aspects of human filovirus disease 10 .

6|chunk|Here, we evaluated the efficacy of AQ in the rhesus macaque model of EVD when orally administered using a similar dosing regimen to that used in human patients. AQ was administered as a consecutive 3-day course of 20 mg/kg free base (26 mg/kg amodiaquine hydrochloride). Treatment began on the day of EBOV exposure or on day 3 postexposure. This study found that AQ had no in vivo efficacy for the treatment of EVD in rhesus macaques. Scientific RepoRtS | (2019) 9:20199 | https://doi.Viral load evaluation. Viral load determination using quantitative real time RT-PCR. Plasma was inactivated in TRIzol LS (ThermoFisher Scientific, Waltham, MA), and total RNA was isolated using the QIAamp Viral RNA Mini Kit (QIAGEN, Germantown, MD) in accordance with manufacturer's instructions. Briefly, 70 L of TRIzol LS-inactivated sample was added to 280 L of QIAGEN Buffer AVL containing carrier RNA. Sample was eluted in 70 L of Buffer AVE, aliquoted, and frozen until assayed. Plasma viral RNA was quantified using BEI Resources Critical Reagents Program EZ1 RT-qPCR (TaqMan) assay kit on an ABI 7500 FastDx (Applied Biosystems, ThermoFisher Scientific) in accordance with manufacturer's instructions using a synthetic RNA standard curve and reported as viral RNA copies (log 10 ) per mL of sample.
6	881	888 carrier	Gene_function	GO_0005215

7|chunk|Virus titration by plaque assay. Plasma samples were diluted in Dulbecco's modified eagle medium with GlutaMAX (Gibco) and 10% HI-FBS (Gibco) and added to confluent monolayers of Vero E6 cells in triplicate. Samples were adsorbed to the cell monolayers for 1 h at 37 C and 5% CO 2 with gentle rocking approximately every 15 min to prevent monolayer drying. The monolayers were then overlaid with a 1:1 mix of 2.5% Avicel RC 591 biopolymer (FMC BioPolymer) mixed with 2X Modified Eagle Medium (Temin's modification, Gibco) supplemented with 2X Antibiotic-Antimycotic (Gibco), 2X GlutaMAX and 10% HI-FBS. Cells were incubated at 37 C and 5% CO 2 for 8 days, stained and fixed with 0.2% aqueous Gentian Violet (Ricca Chemicals) in 10% neutral buffered formalin for 30 min, rinsed, and plaques were enumerated.

