0|chunk|The not-so-infinite malleability of RNA viruses: Viral and cellular determinants of RNA virus mutation rates

1|chunk|Highly mutable, infinitely malleable, and all-powerful: this is often the underlying assumption for how spontaneous mutations fuel RNA virus adaptation. Though essential for adaptation, mutations within RNA virus genomes can exact significant fitness costs. Without the capacity to detect and repair mismatched or damaged nucleotides, viral RNA genomes are prone to mutations introduced by mechanisms intrinsic and extrinsic to viral replication. However, large population size, complementation, cellular chaperones, and recombination can buffer viral populations against deleterious and lethal mutations. As such, viral replication is a rapid, tenuous dance between the generation of sufficient genetic diversity on which natural selection can act and the production of less-fit variants. The purpose of this article is not to describe how RNA viruses evolve. Rather, it aims to provide an introduction to some of the mechanisms by which mutations arise during RNA virus replication, as viral mutation rates are the ultimate source of genetic diversity.

2|chunk|Storage and transmission of genetic information depends upon the correct formation of hydrogen bonds between nucleobases. Mutations arise when mismatches are introduced during RNA virus replication or as a result of postreplicative base modification. Host RNA-modifying enzymes and nitration or oxidation of nucleobases can alter hydrogen bonding and increase the probability of point mutations during subsequent rounds of replication. A mutation rate describes the rate (not frequency) at which spontaneous mutations arise during a single infection and reflects both cell-and virus-dependent mechanisms. Because most mutations are likely lethal or deleterious [1,2], natural selection and genetic drift significantly impact the observed frequency of mutations within a population (Fig 1) . Excluding viroids, RNA viruses replicate with the highest known mutation rates, which are estimated to range between 10 6 and 10 4 substitutions per nucleotide per cell infection [3] . Such high mutation rates enable viral populations to rapidly generate genetic diversity and thus a multitude of phenotypes on which adaptation by natural selection can occur. However, high mutation rates alone are not sufficient to drive viral adaptation. As mentioned above, many mutations are deleterious and decrease viral fitness [1, 2] . How a given mutation affects viral fitness is also dependent upon other characteristics of RNA virus populations, such as population size, genome size, and genome complexity.
2	476	485 frequency	Phenotype	HP_0040279
2	738	747 frequency	Phenotype	HP_0040279

