0|chunk|The importance of dog population contact network structures in rabies transmission

1|chunk|Canine rabies transmission was interrupted in N'Djamna, Chad, following two mass vaccination campaigns. However, after nine months cases resurged with re-establishment of endemic rabies transmission to pre-intervention levels. Previous analyses investigated district level spatial heterogeneity of vaccination coverage, and dog density; and importation, identifying the latter as the primary factor for rabies resurgence. Here we assess the impact of individual level heterogeneity on outbreak probability, effectiveness of vaccination campaigns and likely time to resurgence after a campaign. Geo-located contact sensors recorded the location and contacts of 237 domestic dogs in N'Djamna over a period of 3.5 days. The contact network data showed that urban dogs are socially related to larger communities and constrained by the urban architecture. We developed a network generation algorithm that extrapolates this empirical contact network to networks of large dog populations and applied it to simulate rabies transmission in N'Djam na. The model predictions aligned well with the rabies incidence data. Using the model we demonstrated, that major outbreaks are prevented when at least 70% of dogs are vaccinated. The probability of a minor outbreak also decreased with increasing vaccination coverage, but reached zero only when coverage was near total. Our results suggest that endemic rabies in N'Djamna may be explained by a series of importations with subsequent minor outbreaks. We show that highly connected dogs hold a critical role in transmission and that targeted vaccination of such dogs would lead to more efficient vaccination campaigns.
1	282	295 heterogeneity	Phenotype	HP_0001425
1	469	482 heterogeneity	Phenotype	HP_0001425

2|chunk|Rabies transmission between dogs and from dogs to humans can be interrupted by mass vaccination of dogs. Novel geo-referenced contact sensors tracked the contacts and locations of several hundred dogs in N'Djamna, the capital of Chad. With the data generated PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.by the sensors we developed a contact network model for rabies transmission dynamics. The model results compared well to incidence data. The model explains the relationship between vaccination campaigns and number of cases better than previous models. Highly connected dogs play a critical role in rabies transmission and targeted vaccination of these dogs would lead to more efficient vaccination campaigns. Dog contact networks and rabies transmission PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases | https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pntd.0006680 August 1, 2018 2 / 18 fag-basel.ch/) and the Albert Heim Stiftung (http:// www.albert-heim-stiftung.ch/cms/) have contributed to the development of the geo-located sensors. The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. Competing interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.

3|chunk|Calculations were performed at sciCORE (http://scicore.unibas.ch/) scientific computing core facility at University of Basel. The maps were generated using OpenStreetMap contributors. Katya Galactionova and Lisa Crump are greatly acknowledged for language editing.

