0|chunk|In Vitro Anti-rotaviral Activity of Achillea kellalensis

1|chunk|Background: Achillea kellalensis, which is frequently used by Chaharmahal va Bakhtiarians residing in, Southwest of Iran, as a traditional herbal medicine for the treatment of acute diarrhea, has been selected to examine its antiviral activities against bovine rotavirus and cell toxicity activity in MA-104 cells. Objectives: The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vitro cytotoxic and anti-rotavirus properties of crude extracts of A. kellalensis. Materials and Methods: The dried and powdered flowers of Achillea kellalensis were extracted with hot water and ethanol 50% (v/v). The cell viability and toxicity of the extracts were evaluated on MA-104 cells using four methods; trypan blue dye, NR, crystal violet and MTT assay. The in vitro anti-rotavirus properties were determined via four different assays, in order to evaluate the direct inhibition and/or the inhibition of viral replication. Results: Cytotoxicity of two A. kellalensis extracts showed different concentrations. Hydro-alcoholic extract had low CC 50 at 600 g/mL by the NR assay while the aqueous extract had high CC 50 at 1000g/mL by the crystal violet method. In the simultaneous treatment assay and post treatment assay, the extracts were able to prevent viral replication and inhibit the viral CPE on MA-104 cells at 10 TCID 50 , but the extracts did not exhibit direct antiviral activity on rotavirus adsorption. The effective concentration (EC 50 ) of both extracts was observed to be 100 g/mL. Conclusions: These results indicate that A. kellalensis extracts exert potent anti-rotaviral activity only after viral adsorption. The two extracts from A. kellalensis showed a good selectivity index. Also these results suggest that extracts prepared from the flowers of A. kellalensis may be potential anti-rotaviral agents in vivo and be useful in veterinary medicine.
1	176	181 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009

2|chunk|This study described the in vitro cytotoxic and anti-RV properties of crude extracts of the A. kellalensis collected from Chaharmahal va Bakhtiari and also tested the action mechanisms of the extracts, by determining whether they directly inhibit rotavirus binding to cells and/or inhibit viral replication.
2	257	264 binding	Gene_function	GO_0005488

