0|chunk|Evaluation of TaqMan qPCR System Integrating Two Identically Labelled Hydrolysis Probes in Single Assay OPEN

1|chunk|Ongoing evolution of viral pathogens is a significant issue in diagnostic virology employing TaqMan qPCR/RT-qPCR. Specific concerns are related to false negativity due to probe binding failure. One option for compensating for such deficiency is to integrate a second identically labelled probe in the assay. However, how this alteration influences the reaction parameters has not been comprehensively demonstrated. In the present study, we evaluate a TaqMan protocol using two identically labelled hydrolysis probes (simple, LNA (locked-nucleic-acid)) and MGB (minor-groove-binder) modified probes and combinations thereof in a single assay. Our results based on a synthetic amplicon suggest that the second probe does not compromise the TaqMan qPCR/RT-qPCR parameters, which repeatedly and reproducibly remained comparable to those of the corresponding single-probe assays, irrespective of the relative probe orientation, whether opposite or tandem, and probe modifications or combinations thereof. On the other hand, the second probe additively contributed to the overall fluorescence signal. The utility of the dual-probe approach was demonstrated on practical examples by using field specimens. We hope that the present study might serve as a theoretical basis for the development or improvement of TaqMan qPCR/RT-qPCR assays for the detection of highly variable nucleic acid templates.
1	177	184 binding	Gene_function	GO_0005488

2|chunk|Real-time PCR utilising 5 nuclease or hydrolysis probes 1 , also known as TaqMan qPCR, is an essential and powerful tool used in various areas of life science. It also has great potential in diagnostic microbiology, where the TaqMan qPCR is often the first-line screening method for the detection of many viral or bacterial pathogens in human, animal or plant specimens.

3|chunk|The TaqMan qPCR employs a pair of primers and a non-extendable probe. The probe is a short, sequence specific oligonucleotide, which binds within the region delimited by the primers. One end, usually the 5 terminus, of the probe is labelled using a fluorescent dye, while the other one, the 3 end, is tagged with a quencher. The fluorescent dye and the quencher form a donor-acceptor FRET (fluorescence resonance energy transfer) pair 2 . As the amplification proceeds, the TaqMan probe hybridizes to the target sequence downstream of one of the primers. These two oligonucleotides form an effective unit. Once the upstream primer begins to be extended, the Taq polymerase mediated 5  3 hydrolysis of the probe takes place, leading to the disruption of the FRET pair accompanied by dye release from the quenching effect. Subsequent illumination of the reaction mix results in detectable fluorescence with a dye-specific wave-length. The emitted fluorescence signal is proportional to the amount of accumulated PCR product.

4|chunk|Conventionally, the TaqMan qPCR is a tri-oligonucleotide system. The probe, as the third oligonucleotide, introduces an additional level of sequence specificity into the assay. On the other hand, it also substantially contributes to the susceptibility of the technique to template mutations. Mismatches in the probe-binding region decrease or completely eliminate the probe binding, leading to false negativity. This is an important and frequently reported issue in diagnostic virology 3-14 that is faced in the detection of highly variable viral nucleic acid (NA) templates. Therefore, it is crucial to design novel approaches to improve the inclusivity and to reduce the probability of false negative results of diagnostic TaqMan qPCR assays.

