0|chunk|Greater Microbial Translocation and Vulnerability to Metabolic Disease in Healthy Aged Female Monkeys OPEN
0	74	81 Healthy	Phenotype	HP_0032322

1|chunk|health status, and lifelong diet and environmental conditions. We evaluated colonic structural, microbiomic and functional changes in old female vervet monkeys (Chlorocebus aethiops sabeus) and how age-related leaky gut alters responses to Western diet. We additionally assessed serum bovine immunoglobulin therapy to lower MT burden. MT was increased in old monkeys despite comparable histological appearance of the ascending colon. Microbiome profiles from 16S sequencing did not show large differences by age grouping, but there was evidence for higher mucosal bacterial loads using qPCR. Innate immune responses were increased in old monkeys consistent with higher MT burdens. Western diet challenge led to elevations in glycemic and hepatic biochemistry values only in old monkeys, and immunoglobulin therapy was not effective in reducing MT markers or improving metabolic health. We interpret these findings to suggest that ageing may lead to lower control over colonization at the mucosal surface, and reduced clearance of pathogens resulting in MT and inflammation. Leaky gut in ageing, which is not readily rescued by innate immune support with immunoglobulin, primes the liver for negative consequences of high fat, high sugar diets.
1	292	306 immunoglobulin	Gene_function	GO_0003823
1	791	805 immunoglobulin	Gene_function	GO_0003823
1	930	936 ageing	Gene_function	GO_0007568
1	1087	1093 ageing	Gene_function	GO_0007568
1	1154	1168 immunoglobulin	Gene_function	GO_0003823

2|chunk|There is loss of gastrointestinal (GI) mucosal barrier function (described as "leaky gut" in lay terms) with age in invertebrates, animals, and people 1-3 . A leaky GI mucosa allows greater translocation of microbial antigens (microbial translocation; MT) into the intestinal wall and portal circulation, inciting inflammation locally and remotely 4 . MT is potentially important in driving metabolic health, as there is evidence linking bacterial endotoxemia to the accumulation of ectopic fat 5-7 , which is an important driver of insulin resistance 8 . Although intestinal leakiness occurs with advancing age across multiple species, it has only recently been additionally documented as an important mediator of lifespan, at least in invertebrates 2 .
2	533	551 insulin resistance	Phenotype	HP_0000855

3|chunk|Trends in microbiomes of aged animal models or people have not been consistently observed 9,10 . Clinical studies have repeatedly demonstrated geographic, dietary, and medication effects on the microbiome, making generalizations about age difficult. Most studies evaluate the fecal microbiome, which represents a "catch-all" approach for estimation of colonic contents and may not represent location-specific microbiomes. The microbiome in close association with the mucosal surface may differ, and may be a small sub-population of the general microbiome that cannot be captured with gross fecal analysis 11,12 . Differences may be attributed to effects of the intestinal epithelial cells, which are constantly interacting with the microbiome. The mucosa contributes to host defense through several mechanisms, with immune competence being closely related to mucosal barrier function 12,13 . It is well appreciated in human and non-human primates that the elderly experience immunosenescence 14-16 , and currently there are no approved therapeutic strategies that target immunosenescence, specifically MT, or have indications for ageing, although prebiotics and probiotics are commonly used over the counter strategies.

4|chunk|Age-related increases in leakiness are difficult to assess in human clinical trial settings as age, diet, and environmental factors in people typically change concomitantly. In the current series of studies we aimed to survey the structural and functional changes of the gut with ageing, using a relevant non-human primate model that is not confounded by medications or dietary influences 17, 18 . We hypothesized that the GI barrier defects that we have observed in older monkeys 10 may be improved with oral dosing with serum bovine immunoglobulins (SBI)

