0|chunk|Theoretical conditions for the coexistence of viral strains with differences in phenotypic traits: a bifurcation analysis

1|chunk|We investigate the dynamics of a wild-type viral strain which generates mutant strains differing in phenotypic properties for infectivity, virulence and mutation rates. We study, by means of a mathematical model and bifurcation analysis, conditions under which the wild-type and mutant viruses, which compete for the same host cells, can coexist. The coexistence conditions are formulated in terms of the basic reproductive numbers of the strains, a maximum value of the mutation rate and the virulence of the pathogens. The analysis reveals that parameter space can be divided into five regions, each with distinct dynamics, that are organized around degenerate Bogdanov-Takens and zero-Hopf bifurcations, the latter of which gives rise to a curve of transcritical bifurcations of periodic orbits. These results provide new insights into the conditions by which viral populations may contain multiple coexisting strains in a stable manner. environmental changes such as new host species, the presence of antiviral drugs, new transmission routes or to new vectors [1]. This tremendous evolvability, coupled with densely populated animal and plant susceptible hosts (in many cases lacking genetic variability for resistance to infection), are the reasons for the persistence and emergence of new viral diseases or the re-emergence of new strains with novel properties of already known diseases. The continuous emergence of new mutants leads to an overlap in existence of wild-type (hereafter referred to as wt) and mutant genotypes of the same virus within individual infected hosts [2, 3] . This cloud of mutants is usually known as a viral quasi-species [1] and it constitutes the target of selection, instead of the individual viral genomes. This reservoir of coexisting genetic variants may lead to the emergence of new genotypes with different host ranges, pathologies and epidemiological properties that may result in outbreaks [4, 5] .
1	782	790 periodic	Phenotype	HP_0025304
1	926	932 stable	Phenotype	HP_0031915

2|chunk|With the development of high-coverage, ultra-deep sequencing techniques, it is now possible to characterize in great detail virus genetic diversity along the course of infection of individual hosts, demonstrating the coexistence of multiple mutant genotypes within individual hosts, some even during long periods of time [6] [7] [8] . Furthermore, some of these studies have also shown that dynamics are highly complex and do not only depend on the differences in replicative fitness among individual genotypes, but on other parameters such as the size and frequency of within-host bottlenecks, complementation of strains, fixation of additional mutations on the same genotype, epistasis, the availability of beneficial mutations (which indeed depends on the degree of adaptation to the host), the load of deleterious mutations or clonal interference among coexisting beneficial mutations [9] [10] [11] [12] .
2	557	566 frequency	Phenotype	HP_0040279

3|chunk|What evolutionary mechanisms determine the long-term coexistence of different genetic variants and strains that, in principle, shall be competing for the same resources (e.g. target cells)? Understanding the evolutionary forces of such intraspecific competition or strain coexistence are essential for understanding the long-term fate and composition of viral populations and for a thoughtful design of more robust control strategies for known and future outbreaks [13] . Consequently, the coexistence of evolving pathogens has been the target of extensive research [14 -17].

4|chunk|In the mathematical theory of population genetics, mutation, which is understood as any change in the genome of an organism, is often modelled as a 'flow' between populations of initial wt individuals and emerging mutant individuals [18 -21]. In the present article, we introduce mutation into a mathematical model in a similar way although avoiding forceful restrictions put upon mutant strains and allowing the mutant virus to have similar characteristics to the wt virus. The difference between mutant and wt strains occurs when focusing the study on specific phenotypic characteristics. A number of studies employ fitness to investigate the survival of a population in dynamical systems that present competition or coexistence [22 -24]. As an accumulative property resulting from various phenotypic traits, fitness is a convenient measure of the overall success of the population. In the case of virus evolution, fitness can be considered proportional to the infection rate of the virus [25 -27], and measured by the infection rate when other parameters are fixed. It is known that infection rates differ between strains, a fact which has significant implications for the evolution of virulence and strain coexistence in nature [28] . Even the balance between genetic diversity and competition is believed to be achieved due to the possibility of coexistence among strains with differences in infection rates [29] . In other words, a direct competition for infecting available cells mediates the stable coexistence only when competitive abilities in viral clones satisfy certain pairwise asymmetries [30] .
4	1500	1506 stable	Phenotype	HP_0031915

5|chunk|A secondary phenotypic characteristic that can differ between viral strains is their strategy for exploiting the host cell, i.e. their virulence [31] . The evolution of virulence has received great attention from theoreticians, particularly on the coevolution between resistance and virulence traits and their combined effect on host and virus dynamics [32, 33] . However, understanding the evolution of virulence for coexisting viral strains still requires attention due to the complexity of the underlying evolutionary and dynamical processes, being inherently nonlinear. Many of the models brought forward to explain the evolution of virulence take into consideration the processes of coinfection and superinfection [34 -37], where the host or the host cell is infected simultaneously by more than one pathogen particle (coinfection) or sequentially by different pathogens (superinfection). Here, infection of a cell will be modelled with virions of a single strain and superinfection will be neglected. The benefit of this approach is that analytical insights into coexistence of viral strains can be obtained.
5	113	122 host cell	Gene_function	GO_0043657
5	751	760 host cell	Gene_function	GO_0043657

6|chunk|The purpose of this paper is to illustrate, by means of a dynamical mathematical model, the conditions for coexistence of viral strains that considers both a wt viral strain and its mutants. We present analytical and numerical results focusing on the parameters related to the differential phenotypic traits of the wt and mutant strains. Conditions for coexistence and invasion have previously been studied using a mathematical model of one host shared between two competing parasites [38] . However, this model did not incorporate the mutation of parasites as a factor, and thus neglected the input of new strains into the

