0|chunk|Myricetin: A Dietary Molecule with Diverse Biological Activities

1|chunk|Myricetin is a common plant-derived flavonoid and is well recognised for its nutraceuticals value. It is one of the key ingredients of various foods and beverages. The compound exhibits a wide range of activities that include strong anti-oxidant, anticancer, antidiabetic and anti-inflammatory activities. It displays several activities that are related to the central nervous system and numerous studies have suggested that the compound may be beneficial to protect against diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. The use of myricetin as a preserving agent to extend the shelf life of foods containing oils and fats is attributed to the compound's ability to protect lipids against oxidation. A detailed search of existing literature revealed that there is currently no comprehensive review available on this important molecule. Hence, the present work includes the history, synthesis, pharmaceutical applications and toxicity studies of myricetin. This report also highlights structure-activity relationships and mechanisms of action for various biological activities.
1	361	368 central	Phenotype	HP_0030645

2|chunk|In a subsequent study, Perkin [12] found that myricetin yields a phloroglucinol and gallic acid upon hydrolysis, which served to confirm its chemical structure.

3|chunk|Myricetin (1) is structurally related to several well-known phenolic compounds (Figure 1 ), namely quercetin (3), morin (4), kaempferol (5) and fisetin (6). The compound is sometimes referred to as hydroxyquercetin, resulting from its structural similarity to quercetin (3). The nutraceuticals and anti-oxidant properties of myricetin are highly valued. Scientific evidence [13] underscores claims that the compound displays a variety of pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antitumour, hepatoprotective and antidiabetic activities.

4|chunk|The history of myricetin (1) extends back to more than a hundred years. It was first isolated in the late eighteenth century from the bark of Myrica nagi Thunb. (Myricaceae), harvested in India, as light yellow-coloured crystals [10] . Isolation was primarily sparked by interest in the dyeing property of the compound. It was well characterised in a further study of Perkin [11], who established the melting point as 357 C and prepared various bromo, methyl, ethyl and potassium analogues. This report also described myricitrin (2), a myricetin glycoside (myricetin-3-O-rhamnoside), for the first time. In a subsequent study, Perkin [12] found that myricetin yields a phloroglucinol and gallic acid upon hydrolysis, which served to confirm its chemical structure.

5|chunk|Myricetin (1) is structurally related to several well-known phenolic compounds (Figure 1 ), namely quercetin (3), morin (4), kaempferol (5) and fisetin (6). The compound is sometimes referred to as hydroxyquercetin, resulting from its structural similarity to quercetin (3). The nutraceuticals and anti-oxidant properties of myricetin are highly valued. Scientific evidence [13] underscores claims that the compound displays a variety of pharmacological activities, including anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antitumour, hepatoprotective and antidiabetic activities.

