0|chunk|Immune Responses in the Eye-Associated Lymphoid Tissues of Chickens after Ocular Inoculation with Vaccine and Virulent Strains of the Respiratory Infectious Laryngotracheitis Virus (ILTV)

1|chunk|Infectious laryngotracheitis (ILT) is an acute respiratory disease of poultry caused by infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV). Control of the disease with live attenuated vaccines administered via eye drop build upon immune responses generated by the eye-associated lymphoid tissues. The aim of this study was to assess cytokine and lymphocyte changes in the conjunctiva-associated lymphoid tissues (CALT) and Harderian gland (HG) stimulated by the ocular inoculation of the ILTV chicken embryo origin (CEO) vaccine strain and virulent strain 63140. This study offers strong evidence to support the roles that the CALT and HG play in the development of protective ILTV immune responses. It supports the premise that ILTV-mediated immunomodulation favors the B cell response over those of T cells. Further, it provides evidence that expansions of CD8 + cells, with the concomitant expression of the Granzyme A gene, are key to reducing viral genomes in the CALT and halting ILTV cytolytic replication in the conjunctiva. Ultimately, this study revealed that the early upregulation of interleukin (IL)-12p40 and Interferon (IFN)- cytokine genes, which shape the antigen-specific cell-mediated immune responses, retarded the decline of virus replication, and enhanced the development of lesions in the conjunctiva epithelium.
1	41	46 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009
1	201	209 eye drop	Phenotype	HP_0000508

2|chunk|Viruses 2019, 11, 635 2 of 20 observed in densely populated poultry production areas. Intervention strategies to control the disease rely on the implementation of biosecurity measures and vaccination with live-attenuated and/or recombinant viral vector vaccines expressing ILTV proteins [1]. Among live-attenuated vaccines, there are two main types: the tissue culture origin (TCO) vaccine [2] and chicken embryo origin (CEO) vaccines [3] . Both, CEO and TCO vaccines can be administered through the ocular, oral or intranasal mucosal routes to elicit local and systemic immunity [4, 5] , are capable of protecting chickens against clinical signs and mortality, and suppress replication of the challenge virus [6] . However, it has been demonstrated that live attenuated vaccine strains, most commonly the CEO vaccine strains, can revert to virulence if allowed to circulate in nave chickens and give rise to outbreak viruses, such as the virulent strain 63140 [1]. Although live attenuated vaccines are routinely used in the field, there is little definitive knowledge about the molecular and cellular immune response associated with ocular vaccine-induced protection.
2	1095	1119 cellular immune response	Gene_function	GO_0002443
2	1104	1119 immune response	Gene_function	GO_0006955

3|chunk|Early seminal studies demonstrated a critical role for the cell-mediated arm of the immune system in ILTV protection. In particular, it appears that specific T cell subsets play a role in vaccine protection and resistance against the disease [7-9]. More recent studies suggest that the local inflammatory processes contribute to the pathology of the disease, and eventually modulate the responses of the adaptive immune system to facilitate viral replication [10] . Furthermore, ILTV infection appears to down-regulate type I interferon transcription and delays the early transcription of inflammatory genes to favor initial virus replication in the trachea [11, 12] .

4|chunk|Unlike the mammalian immune system, the avian immune system lacks a discrete lymphatic network. Lymph nodes in mammals are the principal sites for initial antigen presentation in mounting naive responses. In contrast, chickens have a distributed immune network featuring clusters of mucosal-associated lymphoid tissues (MALTs) that appear to fill the role of organizing nave responses [13] . The head-associated lymphoid tissue (HALT) is comprised of the nasal-associated lymphoid tissue (NALT), the eye-associated lymphoid tissues organized in the conjunctiva-associated lymphoid tissue (CALT) and the Harderian gland (HG). Despite the absence of a direct anatomic connection to the respiratory system, the HG, CALT, and NALT serve as major contributors of immunity for the upper respiratory airways. For example, in the NALT, cells capable of taking up Newcastle disease virus (NDV)-coated beads following intranasal administration were identified as potential antigen presenting cells (APCs) [14] . In the HG, the number of IgA-and IgY-producing cells increased after the ocular inoculation of an adenovirus 5 vector expressing the avian influenza H5 protein [15] , and T effector cells (CD3 + , CD44 + ) were detected in the HG and the CALT after infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) ocular inoculation [16] .
4	155	175 antigen presentation	Gene_function	GO_0019882
4	1263	1273 bronchitis	Phenotype	HP_0012387
4	GO-HP	GO_0019882	HP_0012387

5|chunk|Currently, little is known about the components of the cell-mediated immune responses associated with resistance against ILT that develops within the eye-associated lymphoid tissues. Recent findings indicate that the mucosal route of viral entry-ocular, oral, or nasal-can greatly influence the levels of ILTV lytic replication and lymphocyte infiltration in the trachea and conjunctiva [17] . Therefore, assessing the changes in immune cell populations within the eye-associated lymphoid tissues (CALT and HG) after ILTV exposure may help identify important features occurring in mucosal tissues that are involved in ILTV pathogenesis and host immune responses. To this end, the objective of the present study was to assess differences in immune cell dynamics by monitoring the number of T and B lymphocytes, the number of MHC class I and MHC class II antigen surface expressing cells, and transcript profile of interleukin (IL)-12p40, interferon (IFN)-, and Granzyme A genes in CALT and HG after ocular inoculation with the CEO vaccine strain or the virulent strain 63140. Collectively, this study highlights the important role of the eye-associated lymphoid tissue and the immunity elicited against ILTV infection. It provides evidence that the CALT and HG play different roles in the development of ILTV immune responses which were greatly influenced by the viral strain virulence.
5	623	635 pathogenesis	Gene_function	GO_0009405

