0|chunk|Molecular Sciences Theranostics Aspects of Various Nanoparticles in Veterinary Medicine

1|chunk|Nanoscience and nanotechnology shows immense interest in various areas of research and applications, including biotechnology, biomedical sciences, nanomedicine, and veterinary medicine. Studies and application of nanotechnology was explored very extensively in the human medical field and also studies undertaken in rodents extensively, still either studies or applications in veterinary medicine is not up to the level when compared to applications to human beings. The application in veterinary medicine and animal production is still relatively innovative. Recently, in the era of health care technologies, Veterinary Medicine also entered into a new phase and incredible transformations. Nanotechnology has tremendous and potential influence not only the way we live, but also on the way that we practice veterinary medicine and increase the safety of domestic animals, production, and income to the farmers through use of nanomaterials. The current status and advancements of nanotechnology is being used to enhance the animal growth promotion, and production. To achieve these, nanoparticles are used as alternative antimicrobial agents to overcome the usage alarming rate of antibiotics, detection of pathogenic bacteria, and also nanoparticles being used as drug delivery agents as new drug and vaccine candidates with improved characteristics and performance, diagnostic, therapeutic, feed additive, nutrient delivery, biocidal agents, reproductive aids, and finally to increase the quality of food using various kinds of functionalized nanoparticles, such as liposomes, polymeric nanoparticles, dendrimers, micellar nanoparticles, and metal nanoparticles. It seems that nanotechnology is ideal for veterinary applications in terms of cost and the availability of resources. The main focus of this review is describes some of the important current and future principal aspects of involvement of nanotechnology in Veterinary Medicine. However, we are not intended to cover the entire scenario of Veterinary Medicine, despite this review is to provide a glimpse at potential important targets of nanotechnology in the field of Veterinary Medicine. Considering the strong potential of the interaction between the nanotechnology and Veterinary Medicine, the aim of this review is to provide a concise description of the advances of nanotechnology in Veterinary Medicine, in terms of their potential application of various kinds of nanoparticles, secondly we discussed role of nanomaterials in animal health and production, and finally we discussed conclusion and future perspectives of nanotechnology in veterinary medicine. development technology in human and Veterinary Medicine, particularly to create new knowledge and make it translation in to the field. Nanotechnology is one of the key technologies of the 21st century and it could offer numerous benefits to the human as well as animal for the developments various competitive devices in wide range of sectors, which would directly help human welfare. Nanotechnology is a multidisciplinary approach using principles of various subjects, including physics, chemistry, material science, biology, engineering, and medicine. Nanoparticle strictly refers to 1-100 nm in size [1] . Recently nanotechnology and nanomedicine offers significant contribution to clinical therapeutics using biocompatible nanoscale drug carriers, such as liposomes, micelle nanoparticles, dendrimer nanoparticles, polymeric nanoparticles, and metal nanoparticles for more efficient and safer delivery of various anticancer drugs. The nanoparticles mediated drug delivery provides longer circulation half-lives, improved pharmacokinetics, and reduced undesired side effects [2] [3] [4] [5] . Nano-sized materials were employed to improve pharmacological therapies, novel modalities for the treatment and diagnosis. The new technology of nanomedicine increases the efficacy of delivery and potential in cancer treatment, particularly to decrease bio-distribution of a drug, thereby reducing off-target side effects, whilst increasing drug exposure to target cells only [6, 7] . Nanoparticle based therapy could improve the balance between the efficacy and the toxicity of systemic therapeutic interventions [2]. Nanoparticles can carry a high dose of drug payloads; it would overcome the small molecules drugs, which are susceptible to transmembrane diffusion [8] . Nanomedicine offers several nanoparticulate platforms such as liposomes, liposome composites, lipid micelles, polymer micelles, polymer drug conjugates, dendrimers, protein carriers, biologically synthesized nanoparticles, and inorganic nanoparticles, as a drug delivery vehicle and some cases nanoparticles acting as cytotoxic and bio-imaging agents. Veterinary medicine is an important aspect taking care of health care in dairy industry to overcome the significant economic loss.
1	1032	1038 growth	Gene_function	GO_0040007
1	2736	2747 translation	Gene_function	GO_0006412
1	3936	3942 cancer	Phenotype	HP_0002664
1	4369	4382 transmembrane	Gene_function	GO_0016021
1	GO-HP	GO_0040007	HP_0002664
1	GO-HP	GO_0006412	HP_0002664
1	HP-GO	HP_0002664	GO_0016021

2|chunk|Domestic livestock are primary source for the living and getting revenue of more than 600 million farmers in developing countries and contribute to about 30-35 per cent of agricultural gross domestic product [9] . Devastating outbreaks of new diseases and re-emergence of old infections in animals lead to unbelievable loss of income for livestock keepers [10] . The delay of detection and controlling zoonoses is associated with spread of the vulnerable infection to entire herds and humans. Therefore, it is essential to explore the novel technology to prevent and treat the diseases that are caused by various microorganisms to the veterinary animals. The recent development in nanoscience and nanotechnology helps several areas of research and applications in Veterinary Medicine by developing new diagnostic tools and the development of new forms of treatments, which facilitate increasing the longevity and improve the quality of life of veterinary animals. Nanotechnology is specifically defined as the design, characterization, and application of structures, devices, and systems by controlling shape and size at the nanometer scale level (ranging from 1 to 100 nm) and nanomedicine considered to be offers a more strategic approach, these smaller size of particles can encapsulate and deliver drugs to dramatically enhance their effectiveness. Associating a therapeutic molecule with a nanoparticle can enhance its solubility by orders of magnitude, allowing for hydrophobic drugs to be carried more easily through the bloodstream. This could help to address a serious challenge in pharmacology, since an estimated 40 per cent of new drugs are poorly soluble in biological fluids [4] . In addition, nanoparticles can also enable the controlled release of the drug, or deliver two different drugs simultaneously to give a more powerful combination therapy. Most of the studies either beneficial or cytotoxic effects have been done on rodents as in vivo models due to the similarity in biochemical and physiological pathways with human metabolism, but limited studies are only available in veterinary animals [10] . However, the clinical studies were performed in both primary research focused on the treatment and diagnosis of veterinary diseases and translational research in which spontaneous diseases in animals can be used as models of human diseases. Based on the literature considering into account, this review focused on the basic principles behind the use of very commonly used nanoparticles for antimicrobial agents, drug delivery, diagnostics, vaccine formulation, feed additive, reproductive aides, animal growth, and animal production. Further, we discussed the clinical applications and limitations, providing the Int. J. Mol. Sci. 2018, 19, 3299 3 of 32 reader with a realistic synopsis of the practical applications of nanoparticles to veterinary medicine at present and in the near future.

