0|chunk|Improvement of Therapeutic Efficacy of Oral Immunotherapy in Combination with Regulatory T Cell-Inducer Kakkonto in a Murine Food Allergy Model
0	125	137 Food Allergy	Phenotype	HP_0500093
0	130	137 Allergy	Phenotype	HP_0012393

1|chunk|Oral immunotherapy (OIT) has been considered a promising approach for food allergies (FAs). However, the current OIT strategy is limited in terms of the long-term efficacy and safety. We have previously demonstrated that kakkonto, a traditional Japanese herbal medicine, suppresses the occurrence of allergic symptoms in a murine model of ovalbumin (OVA)-induced FA, which is attributed to the induction of the Foxp3 + CD4 + regulatory T cells. In this study, we established an OIT model using the FA mice with already established allergic symptoms and determined whether kakkonto could improve the efficacy of OIT. The OIT method consisted of initially administrating a very small amount of OVA and slowly increasing the amount. Allergic symptoms decreased in the OIT-treated FA mice. OIT significantly downregulated Th2 immune response-related gene expression in the FA mouse colon, and decreased the level of mouse mast cell protease-1, a marker of mast cell degranulation in the FA mouse plasma. Moreover, the concomitant use of kakkonto significantly enhanced the effectiveness of OIT on the allergic symptoms, and the combination therapy further suppressed the Th2 immune responses and the mast cell degranulation. In addition, OIT significantly increased the population of Foxp3 + CD4 + regulatory T cells in the FA mouse colon, and this population was further increased by OIT in combination with kakkonto. Furthermore, the combined therapy with kakkonto reduced the expression of RAdegrading enzyme CYP26B1 mRNA in the FA mouse colon. These findings indicated that the combination of OIT with kakkonto represents a promising approach for FA treatment.
1	846	861 gene expression	Gene_function	GO_0010467
1	952	975 mast cell degranulation	Gene_function	GO_0043303
1	1196	1219 mast cell degranulation	Gene_function	GO_0043303

2|chunk|Kakkonto, a traditional Japanese herbal medicine (Kampo medicine), is approved as an ethical drug by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan (MHLWJ). The quality and Enhancement of OIT Efficacy by Kakkonto in a Murine FA Model PLOS ONE | Fig 1. Outline of the experimental design.

3|chunk|OVA-sensitized BALB/c mice were challenged 3 times per week by oral administration of nonheated OVA solution. After day 40, mice were treated with kakkonto, OIT, OIT+kakkonto or placebo (MC: 0.5% methylcellulose solution and sterilized water) daily for 8 days. One hour before each oral heated OVA challenge, kakkonto or placebo (MC) was orally administrated. Before and after the OIT, mice received a non-heated OVA challenge to assess allergic symptoms (day 40 and day 49, respectively).

