0|chunk|Asymmetrically interacting spreading dynamics on complex layered networks

1|chunk|The spread of disease through a physical-contact network and the spread of information about the disease on a communication network are two intimately related dynamical processes. We investigate the asymmetrical interplay between the two types of spreading dynamics, each occurring on its own layer, by focusing on the two fundamental quantities underlying any spreading process: epidemic threshold and the final infection ratio. We find that an epidemic outbreak on the contact layer can induce an outbreak on the communication layer, and information spreading can effectively raise the epidemic threshold. When structural correlation exists between the two layers, the information threshold remains unchanged but the epidemic threshold can be enhanced, making the contact layer more resilient to epidemic outbreak. We develop a physical theory to understand the intricate interplay between the two types of spreading dynamics. E pidemic spreading 1-6 and information diffusion 7-10 are two fundamental types of dynamical processes on complex networks. While traditionally these processes have been studied independently, in real-world situations there is always coupling or interaction between them. For example, whether large-scale outbreak of a disease can actually occur depends on the spread of information about the disease. In particular, when the disease begins to spread initially, individuals can become aware of the occurrence of the disease in their neighborhoods and consequently take preventive measures to protect themselves. As a result, the extent of the disease spreading can be significantly reduced [11] [12] [13] . A recent example is the wide spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) in China in 2003, where many people took simple but effective preventive measures (e.g., by wearing face masks or staying at home) after becoming aware of the disease, even before it has reached their neighborhoods 14 . To understand how information spreading can mitigate epidemic outbreaks, and more broadly, the interplay between the two types of spreading dynamics has led to a new direction of research in complex network science 15 .
1	1676	1682 severe	Phenotype	HP_0012828
1	1683	1688 acute	Phenotype	HP_0011009

2|chunk|A pioneering step in this direction was taken by Funk et al., who presented an epidemiological model that takes into account the spread of awareness about the disease 16,17 . Due to information diffusion, in a well-mixed population, the size of the epidemic outbreak can be reduced markedly. However, the epidemic threshold can be enhanced only when the awareness is sufficiently strong so as to modify the key parameters associated with the spreading dynamics such as the infection and recovery rates. A reasonable setting to investigate the complicated interplay between epidemic spreading and information diffusion is to assume two interacting network layers of of identical set of nodes, one for each type of spreading dynamics. Due to the difference in the epidemic and information spreading processes, the connection patterns in the two layers can in general be quite distinct. For the special case where the two-layer overlay networks are highly correlated in the sense that they have completely overlapping links and high clustering coefficient, a locally spreading awareness triggered by the disease spreading can raise the threshold even when the parameters in the epidemic spreading dynamics remain unchanged 16, 17 . The situation where the two processes spread successively on overlay networks was studied with the finding that the outbreak of information diffusion can constrain the epidemic spreading process 18 . An analytical approach was developed to provide insights into the symmetric interplay between the two types of spreading dynamics on layered networks 19 . A model of competing epidemic spreading over completely overlapping networks was also proposed and investigated, revealing a coexistence regime in which both types of spreading can infect a substantial fraction of the network 20 .

3|chunk|While the effect of information diffusion (or awareness) on epidemic spreading has attracted much recent interest 21-28 , many outstanding issues remain. In this paper we address the following three issues. The first OPEN SUBJECT AREAS: COMPLEX NETWORKS APPLIED MATHEMATICS

