0|chunk|Chimeric Pneumoviridae fusion proteins as immunogens to induce cross-neutralizing antibody responses
0	82	90 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0003823
0	82	90 antibody	Gene_function	GO_0042571

1|chunk|The authors of this revision of a previously submitted manuscript have responded adequately to most of the suggestions made by both reviewers. However, the suggestion that the authors test their chimera proteins as vaccine candidates in a permissive animal model, cotton rats, for protection from replication of metapneumovirus was not pursued.

2|chunk|The response was that cotton rats do not fully reproduce the pathology of hRSV or hMPV. Perhaps, but cotton rats are permissive enough to allow replication in lungs of hMPV as well as hRSV. They are widely used as animal models for both viruses for assays of pathology and virus replication in the lungs. As it stands, the manuscript only tests one set of chimera proteins, chimeras based on MPV F, in mice (semi-permissive only for hRSV) for effects on RSV replication in the lung. Thus the study could be viewed as incomplete as the chimera proteins based on RSV F with MPV sequences were not tested for protection from MPV replication.

3|chunk|Also the argument was made that the lab was not set up for cotton rat studies. Indeed, there are very few labs that can do these studies but most contract the project to companies that have the capability to do these studies or they establish collaborations with labs that can do them.

4|chunk|Line 277: shouldn't "hMPV" be hRSV since the protein is pre-fusion RSV?

5|chunk|Referee #1 (Remarks for Author):

6|chunk|I view the study as incomplete for reasons stated in the comments to the authors. In addition, testing for protection from RSV replication in mice is not a good test of protection since mice are only semi-permissive to RSV. However, the editors may consider the manuscript acceptable as a test of feasibility. In addition, extending the study to cotton rats may be prohibitively expensive.

7|chunk|As indicated before, we acknowledge the need to substantiate further the protection afforded by chimeric F proteins in animal models other than mice. However, as noted by the reviewer, the added costs restrict those studies to a handful of optimized vaccine candidates as we intend to follow in the future.

