0|chunk|viruses Ebola Virus Maintenance: If Not (Only) Bats, What Else?

1|chunk|The maintenance mechanisms of ebolaviruses in African forest ecosystems are still unknown, but indirect evidences point at the involvement of some bat species. Despite intense research, the main bat-maintenance hypothesis has not been confirmed yet. The alternative hypotheses of a non-bat maintenance host or a maintenance community including, or not, several bat and other species, deserves more investigation. However, African forest ecosystems host a large biodiversity and abound in potential maintenance hosts. How does one puzzle out? Since recent studies have revealed that several bat species have been exposed to ebolaviruses, the common denominator to these hypotheses is that within the epidemiological cycle, some bats species must be exposed to the viruses and infected by these potential alternative hosts. Under this constraint, and given the peculiar ecology of bats (roosting behaviour, habitat utilisation, and flight mode), we review the hosts and transmission pathways that can lead to bat exposure and infection to ebolaviruses. In contrast to the capacity of bats to transmit ebolaviruses and other pathogens to many hosts, our results indicate that only a limited number of hosts and pathways can lead to the transmission of ebolaviruses to bats, and that the alternative maintenance host, if it exists, must be amongst them. A list of these pathways is provided, along with protocols to prioritise and investigate these alternative hypotheses. In conclusion, taking into account the ecology of bats and their known involvement in ebolaviruses ecology drastically reduces the list of potential alternative maintenance hosts for ebolaviruses. Understanding the natural history of ebolaviruses is a health priority, and investigating these alternative hypotheses could complete the current effort focused on the role of bats.
1	930	936 flight	Gene_function	GO_0060361

2|chunk|EBVs are zoonotic pathogens. Several EBV species in Africa have spilled over into human populations several times from animals to humans, with primary cases (confirmed or suspected) occurring close or within forest habitats and often after close contacts (e.g., hunting, transport, eating) between humans and forest wild species (including duikers, monkeys, and great apes) [3, [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] . The disease ecology of EBV is, therefore, multi-hosts and deeply entrenched at human/wildlife interfaces within forest ecosystems. There is a need to understand what constitutes the maintenance of EBV (that could differ from one EBV species to another), namely, a maintenance host or a maintenance community, i.e., several species in interaction within specific forest ecosystems. Understanding how this maintenance system works could help in predicting and preventing future outbreaks. Here, we briefly present current and discuss alternative hypotheses in order to provide insight into different avenues of investigation. We will focus on the disease ecology of the Zaire ebolavirus (EBOV) for simplicity, but most of the following hypotheses apply to the other African EBVs.

