0|chunk|

1|chunk|Reviewer #1 (Remarks to the Author):

2|chunk|I read with great interest the manuscript entitled "A novel peptide inactivator of Zika virus with potential for the treatment of infected pregnant women" by Yu et al. This study provides a very promising discovery that a peptide, designated Z2, derived from the stem region of ZIKV E protein potently inhibits in vitro and in vivo infection of ZIKV. The authors have demonstrated that Z2 can interact with the ZIKV surface protein and disrupt the integrity of viral membranes, resulting in the release of viral genomic RNA and inactivation of ZIKV particles. Intraperitoneal administration of Z2 was highly effective in protecting type I interferon receptor-deficient mice against lethal ZIKV challenge. Most importantly, the authors have shown that Z2 could penetrat e the placental barrier to enter fetus tissues and is safe for use in pregnant mice and their fetuses. Therefore, this peptide has great potential to be further developed as a safe and effective anti-ZIKV drug to treat ZIKV infection in high-risk populations, particularly the pregnant women.

3|chunk|Overall, the experiments in this study are performed rigorously and the results are of great importance. The paper is clearly written and will attract interest of researchers working in related areas and stimulate further progress in development of anti-ZIKV therapeutics. However, I have few recommendations that need to be considered in order to strengthen the manuscript and make the results and the claims of this paper more convincing for the scientific community. I had divided them into major and minor points.

4|chunk|Major points 1. Most recently, two papers were published to show that ZIKV could infect mouse testis and cause its damage, leading to male infertility (Nature. ). The authors of this manuscript have demonstrated that Z2 peptide can be detected in most mouse organs, such as liver, kidney, spleen, heart, as well as placenta and fetal tissue. It would be very interesting if the authors are able to detect the presence of Z2 peptide in the mouse testis tissue. If Z2 can also enter the testis, application of this peptide may prevent the testis damage caused by ZIKV infection.
4	134	150 male infertility	Phenotype	HP_0003251
4	139	150 infertility	Phenotype	HP_0000789

5|chunk|2. The authors have demonstrated that Z2 peptide can interact with ZIKV E protein expressed in the uninfected 293T cells. However, it is unclear whether Z2 can interact with the ZIKV surface protein (E/M) dimer . I would suggest the authors to show whether Z2 peptide can interact with the ZIKV surface protein expressed on the ZIKV-infected BHK21 cells.

6|chunk|Minor points 1. In Figure 1B , how were the amino acid residues in Z2 peptide numbered? 2. Please update the discussion of anti-ZIKV antibodies in lines 57 to 60 and 279 to 280 by citing the latest publication (Sapparapu, G. et al. Neutralizing human antibodies prevent Zika virus replication and fetal disease in mice. Nature http://dx.

