0|chunk|Virology Journal Analysis of virion associated host proteins in vesicular stomatitis virus using a proteomics approach
0	29	35 virion	Gene_function	GO_0019012
0	74	84 stomatitis	Phenotype	HP_0010280
0	GO-HP	GO_0019012	HP_0010280

1|chunk|Background: Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is the prototypic rhabdovirus and the best studied member of the order Mononegavirales. There is now compelling evidence that enveloped virions released from infected cells carry numerous host (cellular) proteins some of which may play an important role in viral replication. Although several cellular proteins have been previously shown to be incorporated into VSV virions, no systematic study has been done to reveal the host protein composition for virions of VSV or any other member of Mononegavirales.
1	22	32 stomatitis	Phenotype	HP_0010280

2|chunk|Here we used a proteomics approach to identify cellular proteins within purified VSV virions, thereby creating a "snapshot" of one stage of virus/host interaction that can guide future experiments aimed at understanding molecular mechanisms of virus-cell interactions. Highly purified preparations of VSV virions from three different cell lines of human, mouse and hamster origin were analyzed for the presence of cellular proteins using mass spectrometry. We have successfully confirmed the presence of several previously-identified cellular proteins within VSV virions and identified a number of additional proteins likely to also be present within the virions. In total, sixty-four cellular proteins were identified, of which nine were found in multiple preparations. A combination of immunoblotting and proteinase K protection assay was used to verify the presence of several of these proteins (integrin 1, heat shock protein 90 kDa, heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein, annexin 2, elongation factor 1a) within the virions.
2	917	922 shock	Phenotype	HP_0031273
2	944	949 shock	Phenotype	HP_0031273

3|chunk|Conclusion: This is, to our knowledge, the first systematic study of the host protein composition for virions of VSV or any other member of the order Mononegavirales. Future experiments are needed to determine which of the identified proteins have an interaction with VSV and whether these interactions are beneficial, neutral or antiviral with respect to VSV replication. Identification of host proteins-virus interactions beneficial for virus would be particularly exciting as they can provide new ways to combat viral infections via control of host components.

4|chunk|The order Mononegavirales contains four families (Rhabdoviridae, Paramyxoviridae, Filoviridae and Bornaviridae), which include many lethal human pathogens (e.g. rabies, Ebola, and Hendra viruses); highly prevalent human pathogens, such as the respiratory syncytial and parainflu-

